That since the common men are now in action
’Gainst the Pannonians and Dalmatians,
And that the legions now in Gallia are
Full weak to undertake our wars against
The fall’n-off Britons, that we do incite
The gentry to this business. He creates
Lucius proconsul; and to you, the tribunes,
For this immediate levy, he commands
His absolute commission. Long live Cæsar!

TRIBUNE.
Is Lucius general of the forces?

SECOND SENATOR.
Ay.

TRIBUNE.
Remaining now in Gallia?

FIRST SENATOR.
With those legions
Which I have spoke of, whereunto your levy
Must be supplyant. The words of your commission
Will tie you to the numbers and the time
Of their dispatch.

TRIBUNE.
We will discharge our duty.

 [_Exeunt._]




ACT IV

SCENE I. Wales. Near the cave of Belarius.


 Enter Cloten alone.

CLOTEN.
I am near to th’ place where they should meet, if Pisanio have mapp’d
it truly. How fit his garments serve me! Why should his mistress, who
was made by him that made the tailor, not be fit too? The rather,
saving reverence of the word, for ’tis said a woman’s fitness comes by
fits. Therein I must play the workman. I dare speak it to myself, for
it is not vain-glory for a man and his glass to confer in his own
chamber; I mean, the lines of my body are as well drawn as his; no less
young, more strong, not beneath him in fortunes, beyond him in the
advantage of the time, above him in birth, alike conversant in general
services, and more remarkable in single oppositions. Yet this
imperceiverant thing loves him in my despite. What mortality is!
Posthumus, thy head, which now is growing upon thy shoulders, shall
within this hour be off; thy mistress enforced; thy garments cut to
pieces before her face; and all this done, spurn her home to her
father, who may, haply, be a little angry for my so rough usage; but my
mother, having power of his testiness, shall turn all into my
commendations. My horse is tied up safe. Out, sword, and to a sore
purpose! Fortune, put them into my hand. This is the very description
of their meeting-place; and the fellow dares not deceive me.

 [_Exit._]

SCENE II. Wales. Before the cave of Belarius.

 Enter from the cave, Belarius, Guiderius, Arviragus and Imogen.

BELARIUS.
[_To Imogen._] You are not well. Remain here in the cave;
We’ll come to you after hunting.

ARVIRAGUS.
[_To Imogen._] Brother, stay here.
Are we not brothers?

IMOGEN.
So man and man should be;
But clay and clay differs in dignity,
Whose dust is both alike. I am very sick.

GUIDERIUS.
Go you to hunting; I’ll abide with him.

IMOGEN.
So sick I am not, yet I am not well;
But not so citizen a wanton as
To seem to die ere sick. So please you, leave me;
Stick to your journal course. The breach of custom
Is breach of all. I am ill, but your being by me
Cannot amend me; society is no comfort
To one not sociable. I am not very sick,
Since I can reason of it. Pray you trust me here.
I’ll rob none but myself; and let me die,
Stealing so poorly.

GUIDERIUS.
I love thee; I have spoke it.
How much the quantity, the weight as much
As I do love my father.
