Therefore, no more but this: Henry, your sovereign,
Is prisoner to the foe, his state usurped,
His realm a slaughter-house, his subjects slain,
His statutes cancelled, and his treasure spent;
And yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil.
You fight in justice. Then, in God’s name, lords,
Be valiant and give signal to the fight.

[_Alarum, retreat, excursions. Exeunt both armies_]

SCENE V. Another part of the Field

Flourish. Enter King Edward, Richard, George and Soldiers; with Queen
Margaret, Oxford and Somerset as prisoners.

KING EDWARD.
Now here a period of tumultuous broils.
Away with Oxford to Hames Castle straight.
For Somerset, off with his guilty head.
Go, bear them hence; I will not hear them speak.

OXFORD.
For my part, I’ll not trouble thee with words.

SOMERSET.
Nor I, but stoop with patience to my fortune.

[_Exeunt Oxford and Somerset, guarded._]

QUEEN MARGARET.
So part we sadly in this troublous world,
To meet with joy in sweet Jerusalem.

KING EDWARD.
Is proclamation made that who finds Edward
Shall have a high reward, and he his life?

RICHARD.
It is, and lo where youthful Edward comes.

Enter soldiers with Prince Edward.

KING EDWARD.
Bring forth the gallant; let us hear him speak.
What, can so young a man begin to prick?
Edward, what satisfaction canst thou make
For bearing arms, for stirring up my subjects,
And all the trouble thou hast turned me to?

PRINCE EDWARD.
Speak like a subject, proud, ambitious York.
Suppose that I am now my father’s mouth;
Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou,
Whilst I propose the selfsame words to thee
Which, traitor, thou wouldst have me answer to.

QUEEN MARGARET.
Ah, thy father had been so resolved!

RICHARD.
That you might still have worn the petticoat
And ne’er have stol’n the breech from Lancaster.

PRINCE EDWARD.
Let Aesop fable in a winter’s night;
His currish riddle sorts not with this place.

RICHARD.
By heaven, brat, I’ll plague you for that word.

QUEEN MARGARET.
Ay, thou wast born to be a plague to men.

RICHARD.
For God’s sake, take away this captive scold.

PRINCE EDWARD.
Nay, take away this scolding crookback rather.

KING EDWARD.
Peace, wilful boy, or I will charm your tongue.

GEORGE.
Untutored lad, thou art too malapert.

PRINCE EDWARD.
I know my duty; you are all undutiful.
Lascivious Edward, and thou perjured George,
And thou misshapen Dick, I tell ye all
I am your better, traitors as ye are,
And thou usurp’st my father’s right and mine.

KING EDWARD.
Take that, the likeness of this railer here.

[_Stabs him._]

RICHARD.
Sprawl’st thou? Take that to end thy agony.

