These both put off, a poor petitioner,
A care-crazed mother to a many sons,
A beauty-waning and distressed widow,
Even in the afternoon of her best days,
Made prize and purchase of his wanton eye,
Seduced the pitch and height of his degree
To base declension and loathed bigamy.
By her, in his unlawful bed, he got
This Edward, whom our manners call the Prince.
More bitterly could I expostulate,
Save that, for reverence to some alive,
I give a sparing limit to my tongue.
Then, good my lord, take to your royal self
This proffered benefit of dignity,
If not to bless us and the land withal,
Yet to draw forth your noble ancestry
From the corruption of abusing times
Unto a lineal true-derived course.

MAYOR.
Do, good my lord. Your citizens entreat you.

BUCKINGHAM.
Refuse not, mighty lord, this proffered love.

CATESBY.
O, make them joyful; grant their lawful suit.

RICHARD.
Alas, why would you heap those cares on me?
I am unfit for state and majesty.
I do beseech you, take it not amiss;
I cannot, nor I will not, yield to you.

BUCKINGHAM.
If you refuse it, as in love and zeal
Loath to depose the child, your brother’s son—
As well we know your tenderness of heart
And gentle, kind, effeminate remorse,
Which we have noted in you to your kindred,
And equally indeed to all estates—
Yet know, whe’er you accept our suit or no,
Your brother’s son shall never reign our king,
But we will plant some other in the throne,
To the disgrace and downfall of your house.
And in this resolution here we leave you.
Come, citizens; zounds, I’ll entreat no more.

[_Exeunt Buckingham, the Mayor and citizens._]

CATESBY.
Call him again, sweet Prince; accept their suit.
If you deny them, all the land will rue it.

RICHARD.
Will you enforce me to a world of cares?
Call them again. I am not made of stones,
But penetrable to your kind entreaties,
Albeit against my conscience and my soul.

Enter Buckingham and the rest.

Cousin of Buckingham, and sage grave men,
Since you will buckle Fortune on my back,
To bear her burden, whe’er I will or no,
I must have patience to endure the load.
But if black scandal or foul-faced reproach
Attend the sequel of your imposition,
Your mere enforcement shall acquittance me
From all the impure blots and stains thereof,
For God doth know, and you may partly see,
How far I am from the desire of this.

MAYOR.
God bless your Grace! We see it, and will say it.

RICHARD.
In saying so, you shall but say the truth.

BUCKINGHAM.
Then I salute you with this royal title:
Long live King Richard, England’s worthy King!

ALL.
Amen.

BUCKINGHAM.
Tomorrow may it please you to be crowned?

RICHARD.
Even when you please, for you will have it so.

BUCKINGHAM.
Tomorrow, then, we will attend your Grace;
And so most joyfully we take our leave.

RICHARD.
[_To the Bishops_.] Come, let us to our holy work again.
Farewell, my cousin, farewell, gentle friends.

