PROTEUS.
That thou art banished—O, that’s the news—
From hence, from Silvia, and from me thy friend.

VALENTINE.
O, I have fed upon this woe already,
And now excess of it will make me surfeit.
Doth Silvia know that I am banished?

PROTEUS.
Ay, ay; and she hath offered to the doom—
Which unreversed stands in effectual force—
A sea of melting pearl, which some call tears;
Those at her father’s churlish feet she tendered,
With them, upon her knees, her humble self,
Wringing her hands, whose whiteness so became them
As if but now they waxed pale for woe.
But neither bended knees, pure hands held up,
Sad sighs, deep groans, nor silver-shedding tears
Could penetrate her uncompassionate sire;
But Valentine, if he be ta’en, must die.
Besides, her intercession chafed him so,
When she for thy repeal was suppliant,
That to close prison he commanded her,
With many bitter threats of biding there.

VALENTINE.
No more, unless the next word that thou speak’st
Have some malignant power upon my life.
If so, I pray thee breathe it in mine ear,
As ending anthem of my endless dolour.

PROTEUS.
Cease to lament for that thou canst not help,
And study help for that which thou lament’st.
Time is the nurse and breeder of all good.
Here if thou stay, thou canst not see thy love;
Besides, thy staying will abridge thy life.
Hope is a lover’s staff; walk hence with that
And manage it against despairing thoughts.
Thy letters may be here, though thou art hence,
Which, being writ to me, shall be delivered
Even in the milk-white bosom of thy love.
The time now serves not to expostulate.
Come, I’ll convey thee through the city-gate,
And, ere I part with thee, confer at large
Of all that may concern thy love affairs.
As thou lov’st Silvia, though not for thyself,
Regard thy danger, and along with me.

VALENTINE.
I pray thee, Lance, an if thou seest my boy,
Bid him make haste and meet me at the North Gate.

PROTEUS.
Go, sirrah, find him out. Come, Valentine.

VALENTINE.
O, my dear Silvia! Hapless Valentine!

[_Exeunt Valentine and Proteus._]

LANCE.
I am but a fool, look you, and yet I have the wit to think my master is
a kind of a knave; but that’s all one if he be but one knave. He lives
not now that knows me to be in love, yet I am in love, but a team of
horse shall not pluck that from me, nor who ’tis I love; and yet ’tis a
woman, but what woman I will not tell myself; and yet ’tis a milkmaid;
yet ’tis not a maid, for she hath had gossips; yet ’tis a maid, for she
is her master’s maid and serves for wages. She hath more qualities than
a water-spaniel, which is much in a bare Christian. [_Pulls out a
paper_.] Here is the cate-log of her condition. _Imprimis, She can
fetch and carry_. Why, a horse can do no more; nay, a horse cannot
fetch but only carry; therefore is she better than a jade. _Item, She
can milk_. Look you, a sweet virtue in a maid with clean hands.

Enter Speed.

SPEED.
How now, Signior Lance? What news with your mastership?

LANCE.
With my master’s ship? Why, it is at sea.

SPEED.
Well, your old vice still: mistake the word. What news, then, in your
paper?

LANCE.
The blackest news that ever thou heard’st.

SPEED.
Why, man? How black?

LANCE.
Why, as black as ink.

SPEED.
Let me read them.

