His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see,
Did stumble with haste in his eyesight to be;
All senses to that sense did make their repair,
To feel only looking on fairest of fair.
Methought all his senses were locked in his eye,
As jewels in crystal for some prince to buy;
Who, tend’ring their own worth from where they were glassed,
Did point you to buy them, along as you passed.
His face’s own margent did quote such amazes
That all eyes saw his eyes enchanted with gazes.
I’ll give you Aquitaine, and all that is his,
An you give him for my sake but one loving kiss.

PRINCESS.
Come, to our pavilion. Boyet is disposed.

BOYET.
But to speak that in words which his eye hath disclosed.
I only have made a mouth of his eye
By adding a tongue which I know will not lie.

ROSALINE.
Thou art an old love-monger, and speakest skilfully.

MARIA.
He is Cupid’s grandfather, and learns news of him.

ROSALINE.
Then was Venus like her mother; for her father is but grim.

BOYET.
Do you hear, my mad wenches?

MARIA.
No.

BOYET.
What, then, do you see?

ROSALINE.
Ay, our way to be gone.

BOYET.
You are too hard for me.

[_Exeunt._]




ACT III

SCENE I. The King of Navarre’s park


Enter Armado the Braggart and Moth his Boy.

ARMADO.
Warble, child, make passionate my sense of hearing.

MOTH.
[_Singing_.]
Concolinel.

ARMADO.
Sweet air! Go, tenderness of years, take this key, give enlargement to
the swain, bring him festinately hither. I must employ him in a letter
to my love.

MOTH.
Master, will you win your love with a French brawl?

ARMADO.
How meanest thou? Brawling in French?

MOTH.
No, my complete master; but to jig off a tune at the tongue’s end,
canary to it with your feet, humour it with turning up your eyelids,
sigh a note and sing a note, sometime through the throat, as if you
swallowed love with singing love, sometime through the nose, as if you
snuffed up love by smelling love; with your hat penthouse-like o’er the
shop of your eyes, with your arms crossed on your thin-belly doublet
like a rabbit on a spit; or your hands in your pocket like a man after
the old painting; and keep not too long in one tune, but a snip and
away. These are compliments, these are humours; these betray nice
wenches that would be betrayed without these; and make them men of
note—do you note me?—that most are affected to these.

ARMADO.
How hast thou purchased this experience?

MOTH.
By my penny of observation.

ARMADO.
But O—but O—

MOTH.
“The hobby-horse is forgot.”

