By the false faith of him whom most I trusted.
This, this All-Souls’ day to my fearful soul
Is the determined respite of my wrongs.
That high All-Seer which I dallied with
Hath turned my feigned prayer on my head
And given in earnest what I begged in jest.
Thus doth He force the swords of wicked men
To turn their own points in their masters’ bosoms.
Thus Margaret’s curse falls heavy on my neck:
“When he,” quoth she, “shall split thy heart with sorrow,
Remember Margaret was a prophetess.”
Come lead me, officers, to the block of shame;
Wrong hath but wrong, and blame the due of blame.

[_Exit with Officers._]

SCENE II. Plain near Tamworth

Enter Richmond, Oxford, Blunt, Herbert, and others, with drum and
colours.

RICHMOND.
Fellows in arms, and my most loving friends,
Bruised underneath the yoke of tyranny,
Thus far into the bowels of the land
Have we marched on without impediment;
And here receive we from our father Stanley
Lines of fair comfort and encouragement.
The wretched, bloody, and usurping boar,
That spoiled your summer fields and fruitful vines,
Swills your warm blood like wash, and makes his trough
In your embowelled bosoms—this foul swine
Is now even in the centre of this isle,
Near to the town of Leicester, as we learn.
From Tamworth thither is but one day’s march.
In God’s name, cheerly on, courageous friends,
To reap the harvest of perpetual peace
By this one bloody trial of sharp war.

OXFORD.
Every man’s conscience is a thousand men,
To fight against that guilty homicide.

HERBERT.
I doubt not but his friends will turn to us.

BLUNT.
He hath no friends but what are friends for fear,
Which in his dearest need will fly from him.

RICHMOND.
All for our vantage. Then in God’s name, march.
True hope is swift, and flies with swallow’s wings;
Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE III. Bosworth Field

Enter King Richard in arms, with Norfolk, Ratcliffe  and the Earl of
Surrey with others.

KING RICHARD.
Here pitch our tent, even here in Bosworth field.
My Lord of Surrey, why look you so sad?

SURREY.
My heart is ten times lighter than my looks.

KING RICHARD.
My lord of Norfolk.

NORFOLK.
Here, most gracious liege.

KING RICHARD.
Norfolk, we must have knocks, ha, must we not?

NORFOLK.
We must both give and take, my loving lord.

KING RICHARD.
Up with my tent! Here will I lie tonight.
But where tomorrow? Well, all’s one for that.
Who hath descried the number of the traitors?

NORFOLK.
Six or seven thousand is their utmost power.

KING RICHARD.
Why, our battalia trebles that account.
Besides, the King’s name is a tower of strength
Which they upon the adverse faction want.
Up with the tent! Come, noble gentlemen,
Let us survey the vantage of the ground.
Call for some men of sound direction;
Let’s lack no discipline, make no delay,
For, lords, tomorrow is a busy day.

[_The tent is now ready. Exeunt._]
