BEDFORD.
His ransom there is none but I shall pay.
I’ll hale the Dauphin headlong from his throne;
His crown shall be the ransom of my friend;
Four of their lords I’ll change for one of ours.
Farewell, my masters; to my task will I;
Bonfires in France forthwith I am to make
To keep our great Saint George’s feast withal.
Ten thousand soldiers with me I will take,
Whose bloody deeds shall make all Europe quake.

MESSENGER.
So you had need; for Orleans is besieg’d
The English army is grown weak and faint;
The Earl of Salisbury craveth supply
And hardly keeps his men from mutiny,
Since they, so few, watch such a multitude.

[_He exits._]

EXETER.
Remember, lords, your oaths to Henry sworn,
Either to quell the Dauphin utterly,
Or bring him in obedience to your yoke.

BEDFORD.
I do remember it, and here take my leave
To go about my preparation.

[_Exit._]

GLOUCESTER.
I’ll to the Tower with all the haste I can
To view th’ artillery and munition;
And then I will proclaim young Henry king.

[_Exit._]

EXETER.
To Eltham will I, where the young King is,
Being ordain’d his special governor;
And for his safety there I’ll best devise.

[_Exit._]

WINCHESTER.
Each hath his place and function to attend.
I am left out; for me nothing remains.
But long I will not be Jack out of office.
The King from Eltham I intend to steal,
And sit at chiefest stern of public weal.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE II. France. Before Orleans

Sound a Flourish. Enter  Charles, Alençon and Reignier, marching with
Drum and Soldiers.

CHARLES.
Mars his true moving, even as in the heavens
So in the earth, to this day is not known.
Late did he shine upon the English side;
Now we are victors; upon us he smiles.
What towns of any moment but we have?
At pleasure here we lie near Orleans,
Otherwhiles the famish’d English, like pale ghosts,
Faintly besiege us one hour in a month.

ALENÇON.
They want their porridge and their fat bull beeves.
Either they must be dieted like mules
And have their provender tied to their mouths,
Or piteous they will look, like drowned mice.

REIGNIER.
Let’s raise the siege. Why live we idly here?
Talbot is taken, whom we wont to fear.
Remaineth none but mad-brain’d Salisbury,
And he may well in fretting spend his gall;
Nor men nor money hath he to make war.

CHARLES.
Sound, sound alarum! We will rush on them.
Now for the honour of the forlorn French!
Him I forgive my death that killeth me
When he sees me go back one foot or fly.

[_Exeunt._]

Here alarum; they are beaten back by the English, with great loss.
Re-enter Charles, Alençon and Reignier.

CHARLES.
Who ever saw the like? What men have I!
Dogs, cowards, dastards! I would ne’er have fled
But that they left me ’midst my enemies.

REIGNIER.
Salisbury is a desperate homicide;
