[_Exit._]

DUKE.
No might nor greatness in mortality
Can censure ’scape. Back-wounding calumny
The whitest virtue strikes. What king so strong
Can tie the gall up in the slanderous tongue?
But who comes here?

Enter Escalus, Provost and Officers with Mistress Overdone, a Bawd.

ESCALUS.
Go, away with her to prison.

BAWD.
Good my lord, be good to me. Your honour is accounted a merciful man,
good my lord.

ESCALUS.
Double and treble admonition, and still forfeit in the same kind? This
would make mercy swear and play the tyrant.

PROVOST.
A bawd of eleven years’ continuance, may it please your honour.

BAWD.
My lord, this is one Lucio’s information against me. Mistress Kate
Keepdown was with child by him in the Duke’s time; he promised her
marriage. His child is a year and a quarter old come Philip and Jacob.
I have kept it myself; and see how he goes about to abuse me.

ESCALUS.
That fellow is a fellow of much license. Let him be called before us.
Away with her to prison. Go to, no more words.

[_Exeunt Officers with Bawd._]

Provost, my brother Angelo will not be altered; Claudio must die
tomorrow. Let him be furnished with divines, and have all charitable
preparation. If my brother wrought by my pity, it should not be so with
him.

PROVOST.
So please you, this friar hath been with him, and advised him for th’
entertainment of death.

ESCALUS.
Good even, good father.

DUKE.
Bliss and goodness on you!

ESCALUS.
Of whence are you?

DUKE.
Not of this country, though my chance is now
To use it for my time. I am a brother
Of gracious order, late come from the See
In special business from his Holiness.

ESCALUS.
What news abroad i’ th’ world?

DUKE.
None, but that there is so great a fever on goodness that the
dissolution of it must cure it. Novelty is only in request, and as it
is as dangerous to be aged in any kind of course as it is virtuous to
be constant in any undertaking. There is scarce truth enough alive to
make societies secure; but security enough to make fellowships
accursed. Much upon this riddle runs the wisdom of the world. This news
is old enough, yet it is every day’s news. I pray you, sir, of what
disposition was the Duke?

ESCALUS.
One that, above all other strifes, contended especially to know
himself.

DUKE.
What pleasure was he given to?

ESCALUS.
Rather rejoicing to see another merry, than merry at anything which
professed to make him rejoice. A gentleman of all temperance. But leave
we him to his events, with a prayer they may prove prosperous, and let
me desire to know how you find Claudio prepared. I am made to
understand that you have lent him visitation.

DUKE.
He professes to have received no sinister measure from his judge, but
most willingly humbles himself to the determination of justice. Yet had
he framed to himself, by the instruction of his frailty, many deceiving
promises of life, which I, by my good leisure, have discredited to him,
and now he is resolved to die.

ESCALUS.
You have paid the heavens your function, and the prisoner the very debt
of your calling. I have laboured for the poor gentleman to the
extremest shore of my modesty, but my brother justice have I found so
severe that he hath forced me to tell him he is indeed Justice.
