lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality, the
blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us to most preposterous
conclusions. But we have reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal
stings, our unbitted lusts; whereof I take this, that you call love, to
be a sect, or scion.

RODERIGO.
It cannot be.

IAGO.
It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will. Come, be
a man. Drown thyself? Drown cats and blind puppies. I have professed me
thy friend, and I confess me knit to thy deserving with cables of
perdurable toughness; I could never better stead thee than now. Put
money in thy purse; follow thou the wars; defeat thy favour with an
usurped beard; I say, put money in thy purse. It cannot be that
Desdemona should long continue her love to the Moor,—put money in thy
purse,—nor he his to her. It was a violent commencement, and thou shalt
see an answerable sequestration—put but money in thy purse. These Moors
are changeable in their wills. Fill thy purse with money. The food that
to him now is as luscious as locusts shall be to him shortly as acerb
as the coloquintida. She must change for youth. When she is sated with
his body, she will find the error of her choice. She must have change,
she must. Therefore put money in thy purse. If thou wilt needs damn
thyself, do it a more delicate way than drowning. Make all the money
thou canst. If sanctimony and a frail vow betwixt an erring barbarian
and a supersubtle Venetian be not too hard for my wits and all the
tribe of hell, thou shalt enjoy her; therefore make money. A pox of
drowning thyself! It is clean out of the way: seek thou rather to be
hanged in compassing thy joy than to be drowned and go without her.

RODERIGO.
Wilt thou be fast to my hopes if I depend on the issue?

IAGO.
Thou art sure of me. Go, make money. I have told thee often, and I
retell thee again and again, I hate the Moor. My cause is hearted;
thine hath no less reason. Let us be conjunctive in our revenge against
him: if thou canst cuckold him, thou dost thyself a pleasure, me a
sport. There are many events in the womb of time which will be
delivered. Traverse, go, provide thy money. We will have more of this
tomorrow. Adieu.

RODERIGO.
Where shall we meet i’ the morning?

IAGO.
At my lodging.

RODERIGO.
I’ll be with thee betimes.

IAGO.
Go to, farewell. Do you hear, Roderigo?

RODERIGO.
What say you?

IAGO.
No more of drowning, do you hear?

RODERIGO.
I am changed. I’ll sell all my land.

[_Exit._]

IAGO.
Thus do I ever make my fool my purse.
For I mine own gain’d knowledge should profane
If I would time expend with such a snipe
But for my sport and profit. I hate the Moor,
And it is thought abroad that ’twixt my sheets
He has done my office. I know not if ’t be true,
But I, for mere suspicion in that kind,
Will do as if for surety. He holds me well,
The better shall my purpose work on him.
Cassio’s a proper man. Let me see now,
To get his place, and to plume up my will
In double knavery. How, how? Let’s see.
After some time, to abuse Othello’s ear
That he is too familiar with his wife.
He hath a person and a smooth dispose,
To be suspected, fram’d to make women false.
The Moor is of a free and open nature
That thinks men honest that but seem to be so,
And will as tenderly be led by the nose
As asses are.
I have’t. It is engender’d. Hell and night
Must bring this monstrous birth to the world’s light.

[_Exit._]




ACT II

SCENE I. A seaport in Cyprus. A Platform.


