Or as the fleet-foot roe that’s tir’d with chasing,  561
Or like the froward infant still’d with dandling:
  He now obeys, and now no more resisteth,
  While she takes all she can, not all she listeth.  564

What wax so frozen but dissolves with temp’ring,
And yields at last to every light impression?
Things out of hope are compass’d oft with vent’ring,
Chiefly in love, whose leave exceeds commission:     568
  Affection faints not like a pale-fac’d coward,
  But then woos best when most his choice is froward.

When he did frown, O had she then gave over,
Such nectar from his lips she had not suck’d.        572
Foul words and frowns must not repel a lover;
What though the rose have prickles, yet ’tis pluck’d.
  Were beauty under twenty locks kept fast,
  Yet love breaks through, and picks them all at last.

For pity now she can no more detain him;             577
The poor fool prays her that he may depart:
She is resolv’d no longer to restrain him,
Bids him farewell, and look well to her heart,       580
  The which by Cupid’s bow she doth protest,
  He carries thence encaged in his breast.

“Sweet boy,” she says, “this night I’ll waste in sorrow,
For my sick heart commands mine eyes to watch.       584
Tell me, love’s master, shall we meet tomorrow
Say, shall we? shall we? wilt thou make the match?”
  He tells her no, tomorrow he intends
  To hunt the boar with certain of his friends.      588

“The boar!” quoth she; whereat a sudden pale,
Like lawn being spread upon the blushing rose,
Usurps her cheek, she trembles at his tale,
And on his neck her yoking arms she throws.          592
  She sinketh down, still hanging by his neck,
  He on her belly falls, she on her back.

Now is she in the very lists of love,
Her champion mounted for the hot encounter:          596
All is imaginary she doth prove,
He will not manage her, although he mount her;
  That worse than Tantalus’ is her annoy,
  To clip Elysium and to lack her joy.               600

Even as poor birds, deceiv’d with painted grapes,
Do surfeit by the eye and pine the maw:
Even so she languisheth in her mishaps,
As those poor birds that helpless berries saw.       604
  The warm effects which she in him finds missing,
  She seeks to kindle with continual kissing.

But all in vain, good queen, it will not be,
She hath assay’d as much as may be prov’d;           608
Her pleading hath deserv’d a greater fee;
She’s love, she loves, and yet she is not lov’d.
  “Fie, fie,” he says, “you crush me; let me go;
  You have no reason to withhold me so.”             612

“Thou hadst been gone,” quoth she, “sweet boy, ere this,
But that thou told’st me thou wouldst hunt the boar.
Oh be advis’d; thou know’st not what it is,
With javelin’s point a churlish swine to gore,       616
  Whose tushes never sheath’d he whetteth still,
  Like to a mortal butcher, bent to kill.

“On his bow-back he hath a battle set
Of bristly pikes, that ever threat his foes;         620
His eyes like glow-worms shine when he doth fret;
His snout digs sepulchres where’er he goes;
  Being mov’d, he strikes whate’er is in his way,
  And whom he strikes his crooked tushes slay.       624

“His brawny sides, with hairy bristles armed,
Are better proof than thy spear’s point can enter;
His short thick neck cannot be easily harmed;
Being ireful, on the lion he will venture:           628
  The thorny brambles and embracing bushes,
  As fearful of him, part, through whom he rushes.

“Alas! he naught esteems that face of thine,
To which love’s eyes pay tributary gazes;            632
Nor thy soft hands, sweet lips, and crystal eyne,
Whose full perfection all the world amazes;
  But having thee at vantage, wondrous dread!
  Would root these beauties as he roots the mead.

“Oh let him keep his loathsome cabin still,          637
Beauty hath naught to do with such foul fiends:
Come not within his danger by thy will;
They that thrive well, take counsel of their friends.
  When thou didst name the boar, not to dissemble,
  I fear’d thy fortune, and my joints did tremble.

“Didst thou not mark my face, was it not white?
Saw’st thou not signs of fear lurk in mine eye?      644
Grew I not faint, and fell I not downright?
Within my bosom, whereon thou dost lie,
