Thou shalt never get such a secret from me but by a parable.

SPEED.
’Tis well that I get it so. But, Lance, how sayst thou that my master
is become a notable lover?

LANCE.
I never knew him otherwise.

SPEED.
Than how?

LANCE.
A notable lubber, as thou reportest him to be.

SPEED.
Why, thou whoreson ass, thou mistak’st me.

LANCE.
Why, fool, I meant not thee, I meant thy master.

SPEED.
I tell thee, my master is become a hot lover.

LANCE.
Why, I tell thee, I care not though he burn himself in love. If thou
wilt, go with me to the alehouse; if not, thou art an Hebrew, a Jew,
and not worth the name of a Christian.

SPEED.
Why?

LANCE.
Because thou hast not so much charity in thee as to go to the ale with
a Christian. Wilt thou go?

SPEED.
At thy service.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE VI. The same. The Duke’s palace

Enter Proteus alone.

PROTEUS.
To leave my Julia, shall I be forsworn;
To love fair Silvia, shall I be forsworn;
To wrong my friend, I shall be much forsworn.
And e’en that power which gave me first my oath
Provokes me to this threefold perjury.
Love bade me swear, and Love bids me forswear.
O sweet-suggesting Love, if thou hast sinned,
Teach me, thy tempted subject, to excuse it.
At first I did adore a twinkling star,
But now I worship a celestial sun.
Unheedful vows may heedfully be broken,
And he wants wit that wants resolved will
To learn his wit t’ exchange the bad for better.
Fie, fie, unreverend tongue, to call her bad
Whose sovereignty so oft thou hast preferred
With twenty thousand soul-confirming oaths.
I cannot leave to love, and yet I do;
But there I leave to love where I should love.
Julia I lose, and Valentine I lose;
If I keep them, I needs must lose myself;
If I lose them, thus find I by their loss,
For Valentine, myself; for Julia, Silvia.
I to myself am dearer than a friend,
For love is still most precious in itself,
And Silvia—witness heaven that made her fair—
Shows Julia but a swarthy Ethiope.
I will forget that Julia is alive,
Remembering that my love to her is dead;
And Valentine I’ll hold an enemy,
Aiming at Silvia as a sweeter friend.
I cannot now prove constant to myself
Without some treachery used to Valentine.
This night he meaneth with a corded ladder
To climb celestial Silvia’s chamber window,
Myself in counsel, his competitor.
Now presently I’ll give her father notice
Of their disguising and pretended flight,
Who, all enraged, will banish Valentine,
For Thurio he intends shall wed his daughter.
But Valentine being gone, I’ll quickly cross
By some sly trick blunt Thurio’s dull proceeding.
Love, lend me wings to make my purpose swift,
As thou hast lent me wit to plot this drift.

[_Exit._]

SCENE VII. Verona. A room in Julia’s house

Enter Julia and Lucetta.

JULIA.
Counsel, Lucetta; gentle girl, assist me,
And ev’n in kind love I do conjure thee,
Who art the table wherein all my thoughts
