I derived liberty.

TIMON.
O, by no means,
Honest Ventidius. You mistake my love.
I gave it freely ever, and there’s none
Can truly say he gives if he receives.
If our betters play at that game, we must not dare
To imitate them; faults that are rich are fair.

VENTIDIUS.
A noble spirit!

TIMON.
Nay, my lords, ceremony was but devised at first
To set a gloss on faint deeds, hollow welcomes,
Recanting goodness, sorry ere ’tis shown;
But where there is true friendship there needs none.
Pray, sit, more welcome are ye to my fortunes
Than my fortunes to me.

[_They sit._]

FIRST LORD.
My lord, we always have confessed it.

APEMANTUS.
Ho, ho, confessed it? Hanged it, have you not?

TIMON.
O Apemantus, you are welcome.

APEMANTUS.
No,
You shall not make me welcome.
I come to have thee thrust me out of doors.

TIMON.
Fie, thou’rt a churl, ye’ve got a humour there
Does not become a man; ’tis much to blame.
They say, my lords, _ira furor brevis est_,
But yond man is ever angry.
Go, let him have a table by himself,
For he does neither affect company,
Nor is he fit for it indeed.

APEMANTUS.
Let me stay at thine apperil, Timon.
I come to observe; I give thee warning on’t.

TIMON.
I take no heed of thee. Thou’rt an Athenian, therefore, welcome. I
myself would have no power; prithee; let my meat make thee silent.

APEMANTUS.
I scorn thy meat, ’twould choke me, for I should ne’er flatter thee. O
you gods, what a number of men eats Timon, and he sees ’em not! It
grieves me to see so many dip their meat in one man’s blood; and all
the madness is, he cheers them up too.
I wonder men dare trust themselves with men.
Methinks they should invite them without knives.
Good for their meat, and safer for their lives.
There’s much example for ’t. The fellow that sits next him, now parts
bread with him, pledges the breath of him in a divided draft, is the
readiest man to kill him. ’T has been proved. If I were a huge man, I
should fear to drink at meals,
Lest they should spy my wind-pipe’s dangerous notes.
Great men should drink with harness on their throats.

TIMON.
My lord, in heart, and let the health go round.

SECOND LORD.
Let it flow this way, my good lord.

APEMANTUS.
Flow this way? A brave fellow! He keeps his tides well. Those healths
will make thee and thy state look ill, Timon.
Here’s that which is too weak to be a sinner,
Honest water, which ne’er left man i’ the mire.
This and my food are equals, there’s no odds.
Feasts are too proud to give thanks to the gods.

_Apemantus’ grace_


    Immortal gods, I crave no pelf,
    I pray for no man but myself.
    Grant I may never prove so fond
    To trust man on his oath or bond,
    Or a harlot for her weeping,
    Or a dog that seems a-sleeping,
    Or a keeper with my freedom,
    Or my friends if I should need ’em.
        Amen. So fall to’t.
        Rich men sin, and I eat root.

[_He eats and drinks._]

Much good dich thy good heart, Apemantus!
