A thousand more mischances than this one
Have learned me how to brook this patiently.

SECOND OUTLAW.
Come, bring her away.

FIRST OUTLAW.
Where is the gentleman that was with her?

SECOND OUTLAW.
Being nimble-footed, he hath outrun us.
But Moyses and Valerius follow him.
Go thou with her to the west end of the wood;
There is our captain. We’ll follow him that’s fled.
The thicket is beset; he cannot ’scape.

[_Exeunt Second and Third Outlaws._]

FIRST OUTLAW.
Come, I must bring you to our captain’s cave.
Fear not; he bears an honourable mind
And will not use a woman lawlessly.

SILVIA.
O Valentine, this I endure for thee!

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE IV. Another part of the forest

Enter Valentine.

VALENTINE.
How use doth breed a habit in a man!
This shadowy desert, unfrequented woods,
I better brook than flourishing peopled towns.
Here can I sit alone, unseen of any,
And to the nightingale’s complaining notes
Tune my distresses and record my woes.
O thou that dost inhabit in my breast,
Leave not the mansion so long tenantless,
Lest, growing ruinous, the building fall
And leave no memory of what it was.
Repair me with thy presence, Silvia;
Thou gentle nymph, cherish thy forlorn swain.

[_Shouts within._]

What hallowing and what stir is this today?
These are my mates, that make their wills their law,
Have some unhappy passenger in chase.
They love me well; yet I have much to do
To keep them from uncivil outrages.
Withdraw thee, Valentine. Who’s this comes here?

[_Steps aside._]

Enter Proteus, Silvia and Julia as Sebastian.

PROTEUS.
Madam, this service I have done for you—
Though you respect not aught your servant doth—
To hazard life, and rescue you from him
That would have forced your honour and your love.
Vouchsafe me for my meed but one fair look;
A smaller boon than this I cannot beg,
And less than this, I am sure, you cannot give.

VALENTINE.
[_Aside_.] How like a dream is this I see and hear!
Love, lend me patience to forbear awhile.

SILVIA.
O miserable, unhappy that I am!

PROTEUS.
Unhappy were you, madam, ere I came;
But by my coming I have made you happy.

SILVIA.
By thy approach thou mak’st me most unhappy.

JULIA.
[_Aside_.] And me, when he approacheth to your presence.

SILVIA.
Had I been seized by a hungry lion,
I would have been a breakfast to the beast
Rather than have false Proteus rescue me.
O heaven, be judge how I love Valentine,
Whose life’s as tender to me as my soul!
And full as much, for more there cannot be,
I do detest false perjured Proteus.
Therefore be gone, solicit me no more.

PROTEUS.
What dangerous action, stood it next to death,
Would I not undergo for one calm look!
O, ’tis the curse in love, and still approved,
When women cannot love where they’re beloved.
