What now?

PANDARUS.
Here’s a letter come from yond poor girl.

TROILUS.
Let me read.

PANDARUS.
A whoreson tisick, a whoreson rascally tisick, so troubles me, and the
foolish fortune of this girl, and what one thing, what another, that I
shall leave you one o’ these days; and I have a rheum in mine eyes too,
and such an ache in my bones that unless a man were curs’d I cannot
tell what to think on’t. What says she there?

TROILUS.
Words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart;
Th’effect doth operate another way.

 [_Tearing the letter_.]

Go, wind, to wind, there turn and change together.
My love with words and errors still she feeds,
But edifies another with her deeds.

 [_Exeunt severally_.]

SCENE IV. The plain between Troy and the Grecian camp.

 Alarums. Excursions. Enter Thersites.

THERSITES.
Now they are clapper-clawing one another; I’ll go look on. That
dissembling abominable varlet, Diomed, has got that same scurvy doting
foolish young knave’s sleeve of Troy there in his helm. I would fain
see them meet, that that same young Trojan ass that loves the whore
there might send that Greekish whoremasterly villain with the sleeve
back to the dissembling luxurious drab of a sleeve-less errand. O’ the
other side, the policy of those crafty swearing rascals that stale old
mouse-eaten dry cheese, Nestor, and that same dog-fox, Ulysses, is not
prov’d worth a blackberry. They set me up, in policy, that mongrel cur,
Ajax, against that dog of as bad a kind, Achilles; and now is the cur,
Ajax prouder than the cur Achilles, and will not arm today; whereupon
the Grecians begin to proclaim barbarism, and policy grows into an ill
opinion.

 Enter Diomedes, Troilus following.

Soft! here comes sleeve, and t’other.

TROILUS.
Fly not; for shouldst thou take the river Styx, I would swim after.

DIOMEDES.
Thou dost miscall retire.
I do not fly; but advantageous care
Withdrew me from the odds of multitude.
Have at thee!

THERSITES.
Hold thy whore, Grecian; now for thy whore,
Trojan! now the sleeve, now the sleeve!

 [_Exeunt Troilus and Diomedes fighting_.]

 Enter Hector.

HECTOR.
What art thou, Greek? Art thou for Hector’s match?
Art thou of blood and honour?

THERSITES.
No, no I am a rascal; a scurvy railing knave; a very filthy rogue.

HECTOR.
I do believe thee. Live.

 [_Exit_.]

THERSITES.
God-a-mercy, that thou wilt believe me; but a plague break thy neck for
frighting me! What’s become of the wenching rogues? I think they have
swallowed one another. I would laugh at that miracle. Yet, in a sort,
lechery eats itself. I’ll seek them.

 [_Exit_.]

SCENE V. Another part of the plain.

 Enter Diomedes and a Servant.

DIOMEDES.
Go, go, my servant, take thou Troilus’ horse;
Present the fair steed to my lady Cressid.
Fellow, commend my service to her beauty;
Tell her I have chastis’d the amorous Trojan,
And am her knight by proof.

SERVANT.
I go, my lord.
