HOLOFERNES.
I will overglance the superscript: _To the snow-white hand of the most
beauteous Lady Rosaline._ I will look again on the intellect of the
letter, for the nomination of the party writing to the person written
unto: _Your Ladyship’s in all desired employment, Berowne._ Sir
Nathaniel, this Berowne is one of the votaries with the King, and here
he hath framed a letter to a sequent of the stranger queen’s, which
accidentally, or by the way of progression, hath miscarried. Trip and
go, my sweet, deliver this paper into the royal hand of the King. It
may concern much. Stay not thy compliment. I forgive thy duty. Adieu.

JAQUENETTA.
Good Costard, go with me. Sir, God save your life.

COSTARD.
Have with thee, my girl.

[_Exeunt Costard and Jaquenetta._]

NATHANIEL.
Sir, you have done this in the fear of God, very religiously; and, as a
certain Father saith—

HOLOFERNES.
Sir, tell not me of the Father, I do fear colourable colours. But to
return to the verses: did they please you, Sir Nathaniel?

NATHANIEL.
Marvellous well for the pen.

HOLOFERNES.
I do dine today at the father’s of a certain pupil of mine, where if,
before repast, it shall please you to gratify the table with a grace, I
will, on my privilege I have with the parents of the foresaid child or
pupil, undertake your _ben venuto;_ where I will prove those verses to
be very unlearned, neither savouring of poetry, wit, nor invention. I
beseech your society.

NATHANIEL.
And thank you too; for society, saith the text, is the happiness of
life.

HOLOFERNES.
And certes, the text most infallibly concludes it. [_To Dull_.] Sir, I
do invite you too. You shall not say me nay. _Pauca verba_. Away! The
gentles are at their game, and we will to our recreation.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE III. The same

Enter Berowne with a paper in his hand, alone.

BEROWNE.
The King, he is hunting the deer; I am coursing myself. They have
pitched a toil; I am toiling in a pitch, pitch that defiles. Defile! A
foul word! Well, set thee down, sorrow, for so they say the fool said,
and so say I, and I the fool. Well proved, wit! By the Lord, this love
is as mad as Ajax. It kills sheep, it kills me, I a sheep. Well proved
again, o’ my side! I will not love; if I do, hang me! I’ faith, I will
not. O, but her eye! By this light, but for her eye, I would not love
her; yes, for her two eyes. Well, I do nothing in the world but lie,
and lie in my throat. By heaven, I do love, and it hath taught me to
rhyme, and to be melancholy. And here is part of my rhyme, and here my
melancholy. Well, she hath one o’ my sonnets already. The clown bore
it, the fool sent it, and the lady hath it. Sweet clown, sweeter fool,
sweetest lady! By the world, I would not care a pin if the other three
were in. Here comes one with a paper. God give him grace to groan!

[_He stands aside._]

Enter the King with a paper.

KING.
Ay me!

BEROWNE.
[_Aside_.] Shot, by heaven! Proceed, sweet Cupid, thou hast thumped him
with thy birdbolt under the left pap. In faith, secrets!

KING.
[_Reads_.] [_So sweet a kiss the golden sun gives not
    To those fresh morning drops upon the rose,
As thy eye-beams, when their fresh rays have smote
    The night of dew that on my cheeks down flows.
Nor shines the silver moon one half so bright
    Through the transparent bosom of the deep
As doth thy face, through tears of mine give light.
    Thou shin’st in every tear that I do weep.
No drop but as a coach doth carry thee;
    So ridest thou triumphing in my woe.
Do but behold the tears that swell in me,
    And they thy glory through my grief will show.
But do not love thyself; then thou wilt keep
My tears for glasses, and still make me weep.
O queen of queens, how far dost thou excel
No thought can think, nor tongue of mortal tell._
How shall she know my griefs? I’ll drop the paper.
Sweet leaves, shade folly. Who is he comes here?

