
GONZALO.
Upon mine honour, sir, I heard a humming,
And that a strange one too, which did awake me.
I shak’d you, sir, and cried; as mine eyes open’d,
I saw their weapons drawn:—there was a noise,
That’s verily. ’Tis best we stand upon our guard,
Or that we quit this place: let’s draw our weapons.

ALONSO.
Lead off this ground, and let’s make further search
For my poor son.

GONZALO.
Heavens keep him from these beasts!
For he is, sure, i’ th’ island.

ALONSO.
Lead away.

 [_Exit with the others._]

ARIEL.
Prospero my lord shall know what I have done:
So, King, go safely on to seek thy son.

 [_Exit._]

SCENE II. Another part of the island.

 Enter Caliban with a burden of wood. A noise of thunder heard.

CALIBAN.
All the infections that the sun sucks up
From bogs, fens, flats, on Prosper fall, and make him
By inch-meal a disease! His spirits hear me,
And yet I needs must curse. But they’ll nor pinch,
Fright me with urchin-shows, pitch me i’ the mire,
Nor lead me, like a firebrand, in the dark
Out of my way, unless he bid ’em; but
For every trifle are they set upon me,
Sometime like apes that mow and chatter at me,
And after bite me; then like hedgehogs which
Lie tumbling in my barefoot way, and mount
Their pricks at my footfall; sometime am I
All wound with adders, who with cloven tongues
Do hiss me into madness.

 Enter Trinculo.

Lo, now, lo!
Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me
For bringing wood in slowly. I’ll fall flat;
Perchance he will not mind me.

TRINCULO.
Here’s neither bush nor shrub to bear off any weather at all, and
another storm brewing; I hear it sing i’ th’ wind. Yond same black
cloud, yond huge one, looks like a foul bombard that would shed his
liquor. If it should thunder as it did before, I know not where to hide
my head: yond same cloud cannot choose but fall by pailfuls. What have
we here? a man or a fish? dead or alive? A fish: he smells like a fish;
a very ancient and fish-like smell; a kind of not of the newest
Poor-John. A strange fish! Were I in England now, as once I was, and
had but this fish painted, not a holiday fool there but would give a
piece of silver: there would this monster make a man; any strange beast
there makes a man. When they will not give a doit to relieve a lame
beggar, they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian. Legg’d like a man,
and his fins like arms! Warm, o’ my troth! I do now let loose my
opinion, hold it no longer: this is no fish, but an islander, that hath
lately suffered by thunderbolt. [_Thunder._] Alas, the storm is come
again! My best way is to creep under his gaberdine; there is no other
shelter hereabout: misery acquaints a man with strange bed-fellows. I
will here shroud till the dregs of the storm be past.

 Enter Stephano singing; a bottle in his hand.

STEPHANO.
_I shall no more to sea, to sea,
Here shall I die ashore—_

This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man’s funeral.
Well, here’s my comfort.

 [_Drinks._]

_The master, the swabber, the boatswain, and I,
    The gunner, and his mate,
Lov’d Mall, Meg, and Marian, and Margery,
    But none of us car’d for Kate:
    For she had a tongue with a tang,
    Would cry to a sailor “Go hang!”
She lov’d not the savour of tar nor of pitch,
Yet a tailor might scratch her where’er she did itch.
    Then to sea, boys, and let her go hang._

This is a scurvy tune too: but here’s my comfort.

 [_Drinks._]

