In some sort, sir: but though my case be a pitiful one, I hope I shall
not be flayed out of it.

AUTOLYCUS.
O, that’s the case of the shepherd’s son. Hang him, he’ll be made an
example.

CLOWN.
Comfort, good comfort! We must to the king and show our strange sights.
He must know ’tis none of your daughter nor my sister; we are gone
else. Sir, I will give you as much as this old man does when the
business is performed, and remain, as he says, your pawn till it be
brought you.

AUTOLYCUS.
I will trust you. Walk before toward the sea-side; go on the
right-hand. I will but look upon the hedge, and follow you.

CLOWN.
We are blessed in this man, as I may say, even blessed.

SHEPHERD.
Let’s before, as he bids us. He was provided to do us good.

 [_Exeunt Shepherd and Clown._]

AUTOLYCUS.
If I had a mind to be honest, I see Fortune would not suffer me: she
drops booties in my mouth. I am courted now with a double occasion:
gold, and a means to do the prince my master good; which who knows how
that may turn back to my advancement? I will bring these two moles,
these blind ones, aboard him. If he think it fit to shore them again
and that the complaint they have to the king concerns him nothing, let
him call me rogue for being so far officious; for I am proof against
that title and what shame else belongs to ’t. To him will I present
them. There may be matter in it.

 [_Exit._]



ACT V

SCENE I. Sicilia. A Room in the palace of Leontes.

 Enter Leontes, Cleomenes, Dion, Paulina and others.

CLEOMENES
Sir, you have done enough, and have perform’d
A saint-like sorrow: no fault could you make
Which you have not redeem’d; indeed, paid down
More penitence than done trespass: at the last,
Do as the heavens have done, forget your evil;
With them, forgive yourself.

LEONTES.
Whilst I remember
Her and her virtues, I cannot forget
My blemishes in them; and so still think of
The wrong I did myself: which was so much
That heirless it hath made my kingdom, and
Destroy’d the sweet’st companion that e’er man
Bred his hopes out of.

PAULINA.
True, too true, my lord.
If, one by one, you wedded all the world,
Or from the all that are took something good,
To make a perfect woman, she you kill’d
Would be unparallel’d.

LEONTES.
I think so. Kill’d!
She I kill’d! I did so: but thou strik’st me
Sorely, to say I did: it is as bitter
Upon thy tongue as in my thought. Now, good now,
Say so but seldom.

CLEOMENES
Not at all, good lady.
You might have spoken a thousand things that would
Have done the time more benefit and grac’d
Your kindness better.

PAULINA.
You are one of those
Would have him wed again.

DION.
If you would not so,
You pity not the state, nor the remembrance
Of his most sovereign name; consider little
What dangers, by his highness’ fail of issue,
May drop upon his kingdom, and devour
Incertain lookers-on. What were more holy
Than to rejoice the former queen is well?
What holier than, for royalty’s repair,
For present comfort, and for future good,
To bless the bed of majesty again
With a sweet fellow to ’t?
