Provost, a word with you.

PROVOST.
What’s your will, father?

DUKE.
That, now you are come, you will be gone. Leave me a while with the
maid; my mind promises with my habit no loss shall touch her by my
company.

PROVOST.
In good time.

[_Exit Provost._]

DUKE.
The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good. The goodness that
is cheap in beauty makes beauty brief in goodness; but grace, being the
soul of your complexion, shall keep the body of it ever fair. The
assault that Angelo hath made to you, fortune hath conveyed to my
understanding; and, but that frailty hath examples for his falling, I
should wonder at Angelo. How will you do to content this substitute,
and to save your brother?

ISABELLA.
I am now going to resolve him. I had rather my brother die by the law
than my son should be unlawfully born. But, O, how much is the good
Duke deceived in Angelo! If ever he return, and I can speak to him, I
will open my lips in vain, or discover his government.

DUKE.
That shall not be much amiss. Yet, as the matter now stands, he will
avoid your accusation: he made trial of you only. Therefore fasten your
ear on my advisings, to the love I have in doing good, a remedy
presents itself. I do make myself believe that you may most
uprighteously do a poor wronged lady a merited benefit; redeem your
brother from the angry law; do no stain to your own gracious person;
and much please the absent Duke, if peradventure he shall ever return
to have hearing of this business.

ISABELLA.
Let me hear you speak farther. I have spirit to do anything that
appears not foul in the truth of my spirit.

DUKE.
Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. Have you not heard speak of
Mariana, the sister of Frederick, the great soldier who miscarried at
sea?

ISABELLA.
I have heard of the lady, and good words went with her name.

DUKE.
She should this Angelo have married, was affianced to her oath, and the
nuptial appointed. Between which time of the contract and limit of the
solemnity, her brother Frederick was wrecked at sea, having in that
perished vessel the dowry of his sister. But mark how heavily this
befell to the poor gentlewoman. There she lost a noble and renowned
brother, in his love toward her ever most kind and natural; with him,
the portion and sinew of her fortune, her marriage dowry; with both,
her combinate husband, this well-seeming Angelo.

ISABELLA.
Can this be so? Did Angelo so leave her?

DUKE.
Left her in her tears, and dried not one of them with his comfort,
swallowed his vows whole, pretending in her discoveries of dishonour;
in few, bestowed her on her own lamentation, which she yet wears for
his sake; and he, a marble to her tears, is washed with them, but
relents not.

ISABELLA.
What a merit were it in death to take this poor maid from the world!
What corruption in this life, that it will let this man live! But how
out of this can she avail?

DUKE.
It is a rupture that you may easily heal, and the cure of it not only
saves your brother, but keeps you from dishonour in doing it.

ISABELLA.
Show me how, good father.

DUKE.
This forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance of her first
affection. His unjust unkindness, that in all reason should have
quenched her love, hath, like an impediment in the current, made it
more violent and unruly. Go you to Angelo; answer his requiring with a
plausible obedience; agree with his demands to the point. Only refer
yourself to this advantage: first, that your stay with him may not be
long; that the time may have all shadow and silence in it; and the
place answer to convenience. This being granted in course, and now
follows all. We shall advise this wronged maid to stead up your
appointment, go in your place. If the encounter acknowledge itself
hereafter, it may compel him to her recompense; and here, by this, is
your brother saved, your honour untainted, the poor Mariana advantaged,
and the corrupt deputy scaled. The maid will I frame and make fit for
his attempt. If you think well to carry this as you may, the doubleness
of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof. What think you of it?
