Than wanton dalliance with a paramour.
Yet call th’ ambassadors; and, as you please,
So let them have their answers every one.
I shall be well content with any choice
Tends to God’s glory and my country’s weal.

Enter Winchester in Cardinal’s habit, a  Legate and two Ambassadors.

EXETER.
What, is my Lord of Winchester install’d
And call’d unto a cardinal’s degree?
Then I perceive that will be verified
Henry the Fifth did sometime prophesy:
“If once he come to be a cardinal,
He’ll make his cap co-equal with the crown.”

KING HENRY.
My Lords Ambassadors, your several suits
Have been consider’d and debated on.
Your purpose is both good and reasonable;
And therefore are we certainly resolved
To draw conditions of a friendly peace,
Which by my Lord of Winchester we mean
Shall be transported presently to France.

GLOUCESTER.
And for the proffer of my lord your master,
I have inform’d his Highness so at large,
As liking of the lady’s virtuous gifts,
Her beauty and the value of her dower,
He doth intend she shall be England’s Queen.

KING HENRY.
In argument and proof of which contract,
Bear her this jewel, pledge of my affection.
And so, my Lord Protector, see them guarded
And safely brought to Dover; where inshipp’d,
Commit them to the fortune of the sea.

[_Exeunt all but Winchester and Legate._]

WINCHESTER.
Stay my lord legate; you shall first receive
The sum of money which I promised
Should be deliver’d to his Holiness
For clothing me in these grave ornaments.

LEGATE.
I will attend upon your lordship’s leisure.

WINCHESTER.
[_Aside_.] Now Winchester will not submit, I trow,
Or be inferior to the proudest peer.
Humphrey of Gloucester, thou shalt well perceive
That neither in birth or for authority,
The Bishop will be overborne by thee.
I’ll either make thee stoop and bend thy knee,
Or sack this country with a mutiny.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE II. France. Plains in Anjou.

Enter Charles, Burgundy, Alençon, Bastard, Reignier, La Pucelle and
forces.

CHARLES.
These news, my lords, may cheer our drooping spirits:
’Tis said the stout Parisians do revolt
And turn again unto the warlike French.

ALENÇON.
Then march to Paris, royal Charles of France,
And keep not back your powers in dalliance.

PUCELLE.
Peace be amongst them, if they turn to us;
Else ruin combat with their palaces!

Enter Scout.

SCOUT.
Success unto our valiant general,
And happiness to his accomplices!

CHARLES.
What tidings send our scouts? I prithee, speak.

SCOUT.
The English army, that divided was
Into two parties, is now conjoin’d in one,
And means to give you battle presently.

CHARLES.
Somewhat too sudden, sirs, the warning is;
But we will presently provide for them.

BURGUNDY.
I trust the ghost of Talbot is not there.
Now he is gone, my lord, you need not fear.
