Lord Cerimon, my lord; this man,
Through whom the gods have shown their power; that can
From first to last resolve you.

PERICLES.
Reverend sir,
The gods can have no mortal officer
More like a god than you. Will you deliver
How this dead queen relives?

CERIMON.
I will, my lord.
Beseech you, first go with me to my house,
Where shall be shown you all was found with her;
How she came placed here in the temple;
No needful thing omitted.

PERICLES.
Pure Dian, bless thee for thy vision! I
Will offer night-oblations to thee. Thaisa,
This prince, the fair betrothed of your daughter,
Shall marry her at Pentapolis.
And now this ornament
Makes me look dismal will I clip to form;
And what this fourteen years no razor touch’d
To grace thy marriage-day, I’ll beautify.

THAISA.
Lord Cerimon hath letters of good credit, sir,
My father’s dead.

PERICLES.
Heavens make a star of him! Yet there, my queen,
We’ll celebrate their nuptials, and ourselves
Will in that kingdom spend our following days:
Our son and daughter shall in Tyrus reign.
Lord Cerimon, we do our longing stay
To hear the rest untold. Sir, lead’s the way.

 [_Exeunt._]

 Enter Gower.

GOWER.
In Antiochus and his daughter you have heard
Of monstrous lust the due and just reward:
In Pericles, his queen and daughter seen,
Although assail’d with Fortune fierce and keen,
Virtue preserved from fell destruction’s blast,
Led on by heaven, and crown’d with joy at last.
In Helicanus may you well descry
A figure of truth, of faith, of loyalty:
In reverend Cerimon there well appears
The worth that learned charity aye wears:
For wicked Cleon and his wife, when fame
Had spread their cursed deed, the honour’d name
Of Pericles, to rage the city turn,
That him and his they in his palace burn.
The gods for murder seemed so content
To punish, although not done, but meant.
So on your patience evermore attending,
New joy wait on you! Here our play has ending.

 [_Exit._]




THE LIFE AND DEATH OF KING RICHARD THE SECOND




Contents

 ACT I
 Scene I.   London. A Room in the palace.
 Scene II.  The same. A room in the Duke of Lancaster’s palace.
 Scene III. Open Space, near Coventry. Lists set out, and a Throne. Heralds, &c., attending.
 Scene IV.  London. A Room in the King’s Castle.
 
ACT II
 Scene I.   London. An Apartment in Ely House.
 Scene II.  The Same. A Room in the Castle.
 Scene III. The Wolds in Gloucestershire.
 Scene IV.  A camp in Wales.
 
ACT III
 Scene I.   Bristol. Bolingbroke’s camp.
 Scene II.  The coast of Wales. A castle in view.
 Scene III. Wales. Before Flint Castle.
 Scene IV.  Langley. The Duke of York’s garden.
 
ACT IV
 Scene I.   Westminster Hall.
 
ACT V
 Scene I.   London. A street leading to the Tower.
 Scene II.  The same. A room in the Duke of York’s palace.
 Scene III. Windsor. A room in the Castle.
