Pardon him, sweet Timandra, for his wits
Are drowned and lost in his calamities.
I have but little gold of late, brave Timon,
The want whereof doth daily make revolt
In my penurious band. I have heard and grieved
How cursed Athens, mindless of thy worth,
Forgetting thy great deeds when neighbour states,
But for thy sword and fortune, trod upon them—

TIMON.
I prithee, beat thy drum and get thee gone.

ALCIBIADES.
I am thy friend and pity thee, dear Timon.

TIMON.
How dost thou pity him whom thou dost trouble?
I had rather be alone.

ALCIBIADES.
Why, fare thee well.
Here is some gold for thee.

TIMON.
Keep it, I cannot eat it.

ALCIBIADES.
When I have laid proud Athens on a heap—

TIMON.
Warr’st thou ’gainst Athens?

ALCIBIADES.
Ay, Timon, and have cause.

TIMON.
The gods confound them all in thy conquest,
And thee after, when thou hast conquered!

ALCIBIADES.
Why me, Timon?

TIMON.
That by killing of villains
Thou wast born to conquer my country.
Put up thy gold. Go on, here’s gold, go on.
Be as a planetary plague when Jove
Will o’er some high-viced city hang his poison
In the sick air. Let not thy sword skip one.
Pity not honoured age for his white beard;
He is an usurer. Strike me the counterfeit matron;
It is her habit only that is honest,
Herself’s a bawd. Let not the virgin’s cheek
Make soft thy trenchant sword, for those milk paps
That through the window-bars bore at men’s eyes,
Are not within the leaf of pity writ,
But set them down horrible traitors. Spare not the babe,
Whose dimpled smiles from fools exhaust their mercy;
Think it a bastard whom the oracle
Hath doubtfully pronounced thy throat shall cut,
And mince it sans remorse. Swear against objects;
Put armour on thine ears and on thine eyes,
Whose proof nor yells of mothers, maids, nor babes,
Nor sight of priests in holy vestments bleeding,
Shall pierce a jot. There’s gold to pay thy soldiers.
Make large confusion and, thy fury spent,
Confounded be thyself! Speak not, be gone.

ALCIBIADES.
Hast thou gold yet? I’ll take the gold thou giv’st me,
Not all thy counsel.

TIMON.
Dost thou or dost thou not, heaven’s curse upon thee!

PHRYNIA AND TIMANDRA.
Give us some gold, good Timon.
Hast thou more?

TIMON.
Enough to make a whore forswear her trade,
And to make whores a bawd. Hold up, you sluts,
Your aprons mountant. You are not oathable,
Although I know you’ll swear—terribly swear
Into strong shudders and to heavenly agues
Th’ immortal gods that hear you. Spare your oaths,
I’ll trust to your conditions. Be whores still,
And he whose pious breath seeks to convert you,
Be strong in whore, allure him, burn him up;
Let your close fire predominate his smoke,
And be no turncoats. Yet may your pains six months,
Be quite contrary. And thatch your poor thin roofs
With burdens of the dead—some that were hanged,
No matter; wear them, betray with them. Whore still,
Paint till a horse may mire upon your face.
A pox of wrinkles!

PHRYNIA AND TIMANDRA.
Well, more gold. What then?
Believe’t that we’ll do anything for gold.
