would not break with her for more money than I’ll speak of.

SHALLOW.
We have lingered about a match between Anne Page and my cousin Slender,
and this day we shall have our answer.

SLENDER.
I hope I have your good will, father Page.

PAGE.
You have, Master Slender, I stand wholly for you.—But my wife, Master
doctor, is for you altogether.

CAIUS.
Ay, be-gar; and de maid is love-a me! My nursh-a Quickly tell me so
mush.

HOST.
What say you to young Master Fenton? He capers, he dances, he has eyes
of youth, he writes verses, he speaks holiday, he smells April and May.
He will carry ’t, he will carry ’t. ’Tis in his buttons he will carry
’t.

PAGE.
Not by my consent, I promise you. The gentleman is of no having. He
kept company with the wild Prince and Poins. He is of too high a
region, he knows too much. No, he shall not knit a knot in his fortunes
with the finger of my substance. If he take her, let him take her
simply. The wealth I have waits on my consent, and my consent goes not
that way.

FORD.
I beseech you, heartily, some of you go home with me to dinner. Besides
your cheer, you shall have sport: I will show you a monster. Master
Doctor, you shall go; so shall you, Master Page, and you, Sir Hugh.

SHALLOW.
Well, fare you well. We shall have the freer wooing at Master Page’s.

[_Exeunt Shallow and Slender._]

CAIUS
Go home, John Rugby; I come anon.

[_Exit Rugby._]

HOST
Farewell, my hearts. I will to my honest knight Falstaff, and drink
canary with him.

[_Exit Host._]

FORD
[_Aside_.] I think I shall drink in pipe-wine first with him; I’ll make
him dance.—Will you go, gentles?

ALL.
Have with you to see this monster.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE III. A room in Ford’s house

Enter Mistress Ford and Mistress Page.

MISTRESS FORD.
What, John! What, Robert!

MISTRESS PAGE.
Quickly, quickly! Is the buck-basket—

MISTRESS FORD.
I warrant.—What, Robin, I say!

Enter John and Robert with a great buck-basket.

MISTRESS PAGE.
Come, come, come.

MISTRESS FORD.
Here, set it down.

MISTRESS PAGE.
Give your men the charge; we must be brief.

MISTRESS FORD.
Marry, as I told you before, John and Robert, be ready here hard by in
the brew-house; and when I suddenly call you, come forth, and, without
any pause or staggering, take this basket on your shoulders. That done,
trudge with it in all haste, and carry it among the whitsters in
Datchet Mead, and there empty it in the muddy ditch close by the Thames
side.

MISTRESS PAGE.
You will do it?

MISTRESS FORD.
I ha’ told them over and over, they lack no direction.—Be gone, and
come when you are called.

