Brewed with her sorrow, meshed upon her cheeks.
Speechless complainer, I will learn thy thought;
In thy dumb action will I be as perfect
As begging hermits in their holy prayers.
Thou shalt not sigh, nor hold thy stumps to heaven,
Nor wink, nor nod, nor kneel, nor make a sign,
But I of these will wrest an alphabet,
And by still practice learn to know thy meaning.

YOUNG LUCIUS.
Good grandsire, leave these bitter deep laments.
Make my aunt merry with some pleasing tale.

MARCUS.
Alas, the tender boy, in passion moved,
Doth weep to see his grandsire’s heaviness.

TITUS.
Peace, tender sapling; thou art made of tears,
And tears will quickly melt thy life away.

[_Marcus strikes the dish with a knife._]

What dost thou strike at, Marcus, with thy knife?

MARCUS.
At that that I have killed, my lord, a fly.

TITUS.
Out on thee, murderer! Thou kill’st my heart;
Mine eyes are cloyed with view of tyranny;
A deed of death done on the innocent
Becomes not Titus’ brother. Get thee gone;
I see thou art not for my company.

MARCUS.
Alas, my lord, I have but killed a fly.

TITUS.
“But”? How if that fly had a father and mother?
How would he hang his slender gilded wings
And buzz lamenting doings in the air!
Poor harmless fly,
That with his pretty buzzing melody,
Came here to make us merry, and thou hast killed him.

MARCUS.
Pardon me, sir; ’twas a black ill-favoured fly,
Like to the empress’ Moor; therefore I killed him.

TITUS.
O, O, O!
Then pardon me for reprehending thee,
For thou hast done a charitable deed.
Give me thy knife, I will insult on him,
Flattering myself as if it were the Moor
Come hither purposely to poison me.
There’s for thyself, and that’s for Tamora.
Ah, sirrah!
Yet, I think, we are not brought so low
But that between us we can kill a fly
That comes in likeness of a coal-black Moor.

MARCUS.
Alas, poor man, grief has so wrought on him,
He takes false shadows for true substances.

TITUS.
Come, take away. Lavinia, go with me.
I’ll to thy closet, and go read with thee
Sad stories chanced in the times of old.
Come, boy, and go with me. Thy sight is young,
And thou shalt read when mine begin to dazzle.

[_Exeunt._]




ACT IV

SCENE I. Rome. Before Titus’s House


Enter Young Lucius and Lavinia running after him, and the boy flies
from her with his books under his arm. Enter Titus and Marcus.

YOUNG LUCIUS.
Help, grandsire, help! My aunt Lavinia
Follows me everywhere, I know not why.
Good uncle Marcus, see how swift she comes!
Alas, sweet aunt, I know not what you mean.

MARCUS.
Stand by me, Lucius. Do not fear thine aunt.

TITUS.
She loves thee, boy, too well to do thee harm.

YOUNG LUCIUS
