
Beauty, truth, and rarity.
Grace in all simplicity,
Here enclos’d in cinders lie.

Death is now the phoenix’ nest;
And the turtle’s loyal breast
To eternity doth rest.

Leaving no posterity:—
’Twas not their infirmity,
It was married chastity.

Truth may seem, but cannot be;
Beauty brag, but ’tis not she;
Truth and beauty buried be.

To this urn let those repair
That are either true or fair;
For these dead birds sigh a prayer.




THE RAPE OF LUCRECE


TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE
HENRY WRIOTHESLEY, EARL OF SOUTHAMPTON,
and Baron of Titchfield.

The love I dedicate to your Lordship is without end; whereof this
pamphlet, without beginning, is but a superfluous moiety. The warrant I
have of your honourable disposition, not the worth of my untutored
lines, makes it assured of acceptance. What I have done is yours; what
I have to do is yours; being part in all I have, devoted yours. Were my
worth greater, my duty would show greater; meantime, as it is, it is
bound to your Lordship, to whom I wish long life, still lengthened with
all happiness.

                           Your Lordship’s in all duty,
                                WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE.




THE ARGUMENT.


Lucius Tarquinius (for his excessive pride surnamed Superbus), after he
had caused his own father-in-law, Servius Tullius, to be cruelly
murdered, and, contrary to the Roman laws and customs, not requiring or
staying for the people’s suffrages, had possessed himself of the
kingdom, went, accompanied with his sons and other noblemen of Rome, to
besiege Ardea. During which siege the principal men of the army meeting
one evening at the tent of Sextus Tarquinius, the king’s son, in their
discourses after supper, everyone commended the virtues of his own
wife; among whom Collatinus extolled the incomparable chastity of his
wife Lucretia. In that pleasant humour they all posted to Rome; and
intending, by their secret and sudden arrival, to make trial of that
which everyone had before avouched, only Collatinus finds his wife,
though it were late in the night, spinning amongst her maids: the other
ladies were all found dancing and revelling, or in several disports.
Whereupon the noblemen yielded Collatinus the victory, and his wife the
fame. At that time Sextus Tarquinius being inflamed with Lucrece’s
beauty, yet smothering his passions for the present, departed with the
rest back to the camp; from whence he shortly after privily withdrew
himself, and was (according to his estate) royally entertained and
lodged by Lucrece at Collatium. The same night he treacherously
stealeth into her chamber, violently ravished her, and early in the
morning speedeth away. Lucrece, in this lamentable plight, hastily
dispatched messengers, one to Rome for her father, another to the camp
for Collatine. They came, the one accompanied with Junius Brutus, the
other with Publius Valerius; and finding Lucrece attired in mourning
habit, demanded the cause of her sorrow. She, first taking an oath of
them for her revenge, revealed the actor, and whole manner of his
dealing, and withal suddenly stabbed herself. Which done, with one
consent they all vowed to root out the whole hated family of the
Tarquins; and bearing the dead body to Rome, Brutus acquainted the
people with the doer and manner of the vile deed, with a bitter
invective against the tyranny of the king; wherewith the people were so
moved, that with one consent and a general acclamation the Tarquins
were all exiled, and the state government changed from kings to
consuls.




From the besieged Ardea all in post,
Borne by the trustless wings of false desire,
Lust-breathed Tarquin leaves the Roman host,
And to Collatium bears the lightless fire,
Which in pale embers hid, lurks to aspire
    And girdle with embracing flames the waist
    Of Collatine’s fair love, Lucrece the chaste.

Haply that name of “chaste” unhapp’ly set
This bateless edge on his keen appetite,
When Collatine unwisely did not let
To praise the clear unmatched red and white
