    Was this a lover, or a lecher whether?
    Bad in the best, though excellent in neither.




VIII


If music and sweet poetry agree,
As they must needs, the sister and the brother,
Then must the love be great ’twixt thee and me,
Because thou lov’st the one and I the other.
Dowland to thee is dear, whose heavenly touch
Upon the lute doth ravish human sense;
Spenser to me, whose deep conceit is such
As passing all conceit, needs no defence.
Thou lov’st to hear the sweet melodious sound
That Phœbus’ lute, the queen of music, makes;
And I in deep delight am chiefly drown’d
Whenas himself to singing he betakes.
    One god is god of both, as poets feign;
    One knight loves both, and both in thee remain.




IX


Fair was the morn when the fair queen of love,
        *        *        *        *        *        *
Paler for sorrow than her milk-white dove,
For Adon’s sake, a youngster proud and wild;
Her stand she takes upon a steep-up hill;
Anon Adonis comes with horn and hounds;
She, silly queen, with more than love’s good will,
Forbade the boy he should not pass those grounds.
“Once,” quoth she, “did I see a fair sweet youth
Here in these brakes deep-wounded with a boar,
Deep in the thigh, a spectacle of ruth!
See in my thigh,” quoth she, “here was the sore.”
    She showed hers: he saw more wounds than one,
    And blushing fled, and left her all alone.




X


Sweet rose, fair flower, untimely pluck’d, soon vaded,
Pluck’d in the bud and vaded in the spring!
Bright orient pearl, alack, too timely shaded!
Fair creature, kill’d too soon by death’s sharp sting!
    Like a green plum that hangs upon a tree,
    And falls, through wind, before the fall should be.

I weep for thee, and yet no cause I have;
For why thou left’st me nothing in thy will;
And yet thou left’st me more than I did crave;
For why I craved nothing of thee still.
    O yes, dear friend, I pardon crave of thee,
    Thy discontent thou didst bequeath to me.




XI


Venus, with young Adonis sitting by her
Under a myrtle shade, began to woo him;
She told the youngling how god Mars did try her,
And as he fell to her, she fell to him.
“Even thus,” quoth she, “the warlike god embrac’d me,”
And then she clipp’d Adonis in her arms;
“Even thus,” quoth she, “the warlike god unlaced me;”
As if the boy should use like loving charms;
“Even thus,” quoth she, “he seized on my lips,”
And with her lips on his did act the seizure;
And as she fetched breath, away he skips,
And would not take her meaning nor her pleasure.
    Ah, that I had my lady at this bay,
    To kiss and clip me till I run away!




XII


Crabbed age and youth cannot live together:
Youth is full of pleasance, age is full of care;
Youth like summer morn, age like winter weather;
Youth like summer brave, age like winter bare.
Youth is full of sport, age’s breath is short;
    Youth is nimble, age is lame;
Youth is hot and bold, age is weak and cold;
    Youth is wild, and age is tame.
