To keep mine own, excuse it how she can.

DEMETRIUS.
Wilt thou betray thy noble mistress thus?

AARON.
My mistress is my mistress; this my self;
The vigour and the picture of my youth.
This before all the world do I prefer;
This maugre all the world will I keep safe,
Or some of you shall smoke for it in Rome.

DEMETRIUS.
By this our mother is for ever shamed.

CHIRON.
Rome will despise her for this foul escape.

NURSE.
The emperor in his rage will doom her death.

CHIRON.
I blush to think upon this ignomy.

AARON.
Why, there’s the privilege your beauty bears.
Fie, treacherous hue, that will betray with blushing
The close enacts and counsels of thy heart!
Here’s a young lad framed of another leer.
Look how the black slave smiles upon the father,
As who should say “Old lad, I am thine own.”
He is your brother, lords, sensibly fed
Of that self blood that first gave life to you;
And from your womb where you imprisoned were
He is enfranchised and come to light.
Nay, he is your brother by the surer side,
Although my seal be stamped in his face.

NURSE.
Aaron, what shall I say unto the empress?

DEMETRIUS.
Advise thee, Aaron, what is to be done,
And we will all subscribe to thy advice.
Save thou the child, so we may all be safe.

AARON.
Then sit we down, and let us all consult.
My son and I will have the wind of you.
Keep there. Now talk at pleasure of your safety.

[_They sit._]

DEMETRIUS.
How many women saw this child of his?

AARON.
Why, so, brave lords! When we join in league,
I am a lamb; but if you brave the Moor,
The chafed boar, the mountain lioness,
The ocean swells not so as Aaron storms.
But say again, how many saw the child?

NURSE.
Cornelia the midwife and myself,
And no one else but the delivered empress.

AARON.
The empress, the midwife, and yourself.
Two may keep counsel when the third’s away.
Go to the empress; tell her this I said.

[_He kills her._]

“Wheak, wheak!” So cries a pig prepared to the spit.

DEMETRIUS.
What mean’st thou, Aaron? Wherefore didst thou this?

AARON.
O Lord, sir, ’tis a deed of policy.
Shall she live to betray this guilt of ours,
A long-tongued babbling gossip? No, lords, no.
And now be it known to you my full intent.
Not far, one Muliteus lives, my countryman;
His wife but yesternight was brought to bed.
His child is like to her, fair as you are.
Go pack with him, and give the mother gold,
And tell them both the circumstance of all,
And how by this their child shall be advanced,
And be received for the emperor’s heir,
And substituted in the place of mine,
To calm this tempest whirling in the court;
And let the emperor dandle him for his own.
Hark ye, lords; ye see I have given her physic,

[_Indicating the Nurse._]

And you must needs bestow her funeral;
The fields are near, and you are gallant grooms.
