
LEONTES.
You are married?

FLORIZEL.
We are not, sir, nor are we like to be.
The stars, I see, will kiss the valleys first.
The odds for high and low’s alike.

LEONTES.
My lord,
Is this the daughter of a king?

FLORIZEL.
She is,
When once she is my wife.

LEONTES.
That “once”, I see by your good father’s speed,
Will come on very slowly. I am sorry,
Most sorry, you have broken from his liking,
Where you were tied in duty; and as sorry
Your choice is not so rich in worth as beauty,
That you might well enjoy her.

FLORIZEL.
Dear, look up:
Though Fortune, visible an enemy,
Should chase us with my father, power no jot
Hath she to change our loves. Beseech you, sir,
Remember since you ow’d no more to time
Than I do now: with thought of such affections,
Step forth mine advocate. At your request
My father will grant precious things as trifles.

LEONTES.
Would he do so, I’d beg your precious mistress,
Which he counts but a trifle.

PAULINA.
Sir, my liege,
Your eye hath too much youth in ’t: not a month
’Fore your queen died, she was more worth such gazes
Than what you look on now.

LEONTES.
I thought of her
Even in these looks I made. [_To Florizel._] But your petition
Is yet unanswer’d. I will to your father.
Your honour not o’erthrown by your desires,
I am friend to them and you: upon which errand
I now go toward him; therefore follow me,
And mark what way I make. Come, good my lord.

 [_Exeunt._]

SCENE II. The same. Before the Palace.

 Enter Autolycus and a Gentleman.

AUTOLYCUS.
Beseech you, sir, were you present at this relation?

FIRST GENTLEMAN.
I was by at the opening of the fardel, heard the old shepherd deliver
the manner how he found it: whereupon, after a little amazedness, we
were all commanded out of the chamber; only this, methought I heard the
shepherd say he found the child.

AUTOLYCUS.
I would most gladly know the issue of it.

FIRST GENTLEMAN.
I make a broken delivery of the business; but the changes I perceived
in the king and Camillo were very notes of admiration. They seemed
almost, with staring on one another, to tear the cases of their eyes.
There was speech in their dumbness, language in their very gesture;
they looked as they had heard of a world ransomed, or one destroyed. A
notable passion of wonder appeared in them; but the wisest beholder,
that knew no more but seeing could not say if th’ importance were joy
or sorrow; but in the extremity of the one, it must needs be. Here
comes a gentleman that happily knows more.

 Enter a Gentleman.

The news, Rogero?

SECOND GENTLEMAN.
Nothing but bonfires: the oracle is fulfilled: the king’s daughter is
found: such a deal of wonder is broken out within this hour that
ballad-makers cannot be able to express it. Here comes the Lady
Paulina’s steward: he can deliver you more.

 Enter a third Gentleman.

 How goes it now, sir? This news, which is called true, is so like an
 old tale that the verity of it is in strong suspicion. Has the king
 found his heir?

THIRD GENTLEMAN.
