Then I degraded you from being king,
And come now to create you Duke of York.
Alas, how should you govern any kingdom
That know not how to use ambassadors,
Nor how to be contented with one wife,
Nor how to use your brothers brotherly,
Nor how to study for the people’s welfare,
Nor how to shroud yourself from enemies?

KING EDWARD.
Yea, brother of Clarence, art thou here too?
Nay, then I see that Edward needs must down.
Yet, Warwick, in despite of all mischance
Of thee thyself and all thy complices,
Edward will always bear himself as king.
Though Fortune’s malice overthrow my state,
My mind exceeds the compass of her wheel.

WARWICK.
Then for his mind be Edward England’s king;

[_Takes off his crown._]

But Henry now shall wear the English crown
And be true king indeed, thou but the shadow.
My lord of Somerset, at my request,
See that forthwith Duke Edward be conveyed
Unto my brother, Archbishop of York.
When I have fought with Pembroke and his fellows,
I’ll follow you and tell what answer
Lewis and the Lady Bona send to him.
Now, for a while farewell, good Duke of York.

[_They begin to lead him out forcibly._]

KING EDWARD.
What fates impose, that men must needs abide;
It boots not to resist both wind and tide.

[_Exit King Edward, led out; Somerset with him._]

OXFORD.
What now remains, my lords, for us to do,
But march to London with our soldiers?

WARWICK.
Ay, that’s the first thing that we have to do,
To free King Henry from imprisonment
And see him seated in the regal throne.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE IV. London. The Palace

Enter Queen Elizabeth and Rivers.

RIVERS.
Madam, what makes you in this sudden change?

QUEEN ELIZABETH.
Why, brother Rivers, are you yet to learn
What late misfortune is befall’n King Edward?

RIVERS.
What, loss of some pitched battle against Warwick?

QUEEN ELIZABETH.
No, but the loss of his own royal person.

RIVERS.
Then is my sovereign slain?

QUEEN ELIZABETH.
Ay, almost slain, for he is taken prisoner,
Either betrayed by falsehood of his guard
Or by his foe surprised at unawares;
And, as I further have to understand,
Is new committed to the Bishop of York,
Fell Warwick’s brother and by that our foe.

RIVERS.
These news, I must confess, are full of grief;
Yet, gracious madam, bear it as you may.
Warwick may lose that now hath won the day.

QUEEN ELIZABETH.
Till then, fair hope must hinder life’s decay;
And I the rather wean me from despair
For love of Edward’s offspring in my womb.
This is it that makes me bridle passion
And bear with mildness my misfortune’s cross,
Ay, ay, for this I draw in many a tear
And stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs,
Lest with my sighs or tears I blast or drown
King Edward’s fruit, true heir to th’ English crown.

RIVERS.
But, madam, where is Warwick then become?

QUEEN ELIZABETH.
