And the device he bears upon his shield
Is an arm’d knight that’s conquer’d by a lady;
The motto thus, in Spanish, _Piu por dulzura que por forza._

 The third Knight passes by, and his Squire presents his shield to
 Thaisa.

SIMONIDES.
And what’s the third?

THAISA.
The third of Antioch;
And his device, a wreath of chivalry;
The word, _Me pompae provexit apex._

 The fourth Knight passes by, and his Squire presents his shield to
 Thaisa.

SIMONIDES.
What is the fourth?

THAISA.
A burning torch that’s turned upside down;
The word, _Quod me alit me extinguit._

SIMONIDES.
Which shows that beauty hath his power and will,
Which can as well inflame as it can kill.

 The fifth Knight passes by, and his Squire presents his shield to
 Thaisa.

THAISA.
The fifth, an hand environed with clouds,
Holding out gold that’s by the touchstone tried;
The motto thus, _Sic spectanda fides._

 The sixth Knight, Pericles, passes in rusty armour with bases, and
 unaccompanied. He presents his device directly to Thaisa.

SIMONIDES.
And what’s the sixth and last, the which the knight himself
With such a graceful courtesy deliver’d?

THAISA.
He seems to be a stranger; but his present is
A wither’d branch, that’s only green at top;
The motto, _In hac spe vivo._

SIMONIDES.
A pretty moral;
From the dejected state wherein he is,
He hopes by you his fortunes yet may flourish.

FIRST LORD.
He had need mean better than his outward show
Can any way speak in his just commend;
For by his rusty outside he appears
To have practised more the whipstock than the lance.

SECOND LORD.
He well may be a stranger, for he comes
To an honour’d triumph strangely furnished.

THIRD LORD.
And on set purpose let his armour rust
Until this day, to scour it in the dust.

SIMONIDES.
Opinion’s but a fool, that makes us scan
The outward habit by the inward man.
But stay, the knights are coming.
We will withdraw into the gallery.

 [_Exeunt. Great shouts within, and all cry_ ‘The mean Knight!’]



SCENE III. The same. A hall of state: a banquet prepared.

 Enter Simonides, Thaisa, Lords, Attendants and Knights, from tilting.

SIMONIDES.
Knights,
To say you’re welcome were superfluous.
To place upon the volume of your deeds,
As in a title-page, your worth in arms,
Were more than you expect, or more than’s fit,
Since every worth in show commends itself.
Prepare for mirth, for mirth becomes a feast:
You are princes and my guests.

THAISA.
But you, my knight and guest;
To whom this wreath of victory I give,
And crown you king of this day’s happiness.

PERICLES.
’Tis more by fortune, lady, than by merit.

