
TIMON.
Captain Alcibiades, your heart’s in the field now.

ALCIBIADES.
My heart is ever at your service, my lord.

TIMON.
You had rather be at a breakfast of enemies than a dinner of friends.

ALCIBIADES.
So they were bleeding new, my lord, there’s no meat like ’em. I could
wish my best friend at such a feast.

APEMANTUS.
Would all those flatterers were thine enemies then, that then thou
mightst kill ’em, and bid me to ’em.

FIRST LORD.
Might we but have that happiness, my lord, that you would once use our
hearts, whereby we might express some part of our zeals, we should
think ourselves for ever perfect.

TIMON.
O, no doubt, my good friends, but the gods themselves have provided
that I shall have much help from you. How had you been my friends else?
Why have you that charitable title from thousands, did not you chiefly
belong to my heart? I have told more of you to myself than you can with
modesty speak in your own behalf. And thus far I confirm you. O you
gods, think I, what need we have any friends if we should ne’er have
need of ’em? They were the most needless creatures living, should we
ne’er have use for ’em, and would most resemble sweet instruments hung
up in cases, that keep their sounds to themselves. Why, I have often
wished myself poorer that I might come nearer to you. We are born to do
benefits, and what better or properer can we call our own than the
riches of our friends? O, what a precious comfort ’tis to have so many,
like brothers, commanding one another’s fortunes. O joy’s e’en made
away ere’t can be born! Mine eyes cannot hold out water, methinks. To
forget their faults, I drink to you.

APEMANTUS.
Thou weep’st to make them drink, Timon.

SECOND LORD.
Joy had the like conception in our eyes
And, at that instant like a babe sprung up.

APEMANTUS.
Ho, ho! I laugh to think that babe a bastard.

THIRD LORD.
I promise you, my lord, you moved me much.

APEMANTUS.
Much!

[_A tucket sounds._]

TIMON.
What means that trump?

Enter a Servant.

How now?

SERVANT.
Please you, my lord, there are certain ladies most desirous of
admittance.

TIMON.
Ladies? What are their wills?

SERVANT.
There comes with them a forerunner, my lord, which bears that office,
to signify their pleasures.

TIMON.
I pray, let them be admitted.

[_Exit Servant._]

Enter Cupid.

CUPID.
Hail to thee, worthy Timon, and to all
That of his bounties taste! The five best senses
Acknowledge thee their patron and come freely
To gratulate thy plenteous bosom. There
Taste, touch, all, pleased from thy table rise;
They only now come but to feast thine eyes.

TIMON.
They’re welcome all, let ’em have kind admittance.
Music, make their welcome!

FIRST LORD.
You see, my lord, how ample you’re beloved.

Music. Enter a masque of Ladies as Amazons, with lutes in their hands,
dancing and playing.
