Enter Lance with his dog Crab.

LANCE.
When a man’s servant shall play the cur with him, look you, it goes
hard: one that I brought up of a puppy; one that I saved from drowning
when three or four of his blind brothers and sisters went to it. I have
taught him even as one would say precisely, “Thus I would teach a dog.”
I was sent to deliver him as a present to Mistress Silvia from my
master; and I came no sooner into the dining-chamber but he steps me to
her trencher and steals her capon’s leg. O, ’tis a foul thing when a
cur cannot keep himself in all companies! I would have, as one should
say, one that takes upon him to be a dog indeed, to be, as it were, a
dog at all things. If I had not had more wit than he, to take a fault
upon me that he did, I think verily he had been hanged for’t; sure as I
live, he had suffered for’t. You shall judge. He thrusts me himself
into the company of three or four gentleman-like dogs under the Duke’s
table; he had not been there—bless the mark!—a pissing-while but all
the chamber smelt him. “Out with the dog!” says one; “What cur is
that?” says another; “Whip him out”, says the third; “Hang him up”,
says the Duke. I, having been acquainted with the smell before, knew it
was Crab, and goes me to the fellow that whips the dogs. “Friend,”
quoth I, “you mean to whip the dog?” “Ay, marry do I,” quoth he. “You do
him the more wrong,” quoth I. “’Twas I did the thing you wot of.” He
makes me no more ado but whips me out of the chamber. How many masters
would do this for his servant? Nay, I’ll be sworn I have sat in the
stock for puddings he hath stolen, otherwise he had been executed. I
have stood on the pillory for geese he hath killed, otherwise he had
suffered for’t. [_To Crab_.] Thou think’st not of this now. Nay, I
remember the trick you served me when I took my leave of Madam Silvia.
Did not I bid thee still mark me, and do as I do? When didst thou see
me heave up my leg and make water against a gentlewoman’s farthingale?
Didst thou ever see me do such a trick?

Enter Proteus and Julia disguised as Sebastian.

PROTEUS.
Sebastian is thy name? I like thee well,
And will employ thee in some service presently.

JULIA.
In what you please; I’ll do what I can.

PROTEUS.
I hope thou wilt. [_To Lance_.] How now, you whoreson peasant,
Where have you been these two days loitering?

LANCE.
Marry, sir, I carried Mistress Silvia the dog you bade me.

PROTEUS.
And what says she to my little jewel?

LANCE.
Marry, she says your dog was a cur, and tells you currish thanks is
good enough for such a present.

PROTEUS.
But she received my dog?

LANCE.
No, indeed, did she not. Here have I brought him back again.

PROTEUS.
What, didst thou offer her this from me?

LANCE.
Ay, sir, the other squirrel was stolen from me by the hangman’s boys in
the market-place, and then I offered her mine own, who is a dog as big
as ten of yours, and therefore the gift the greater.

PROTEUS.
Go, get thee hence, and find my dog again,
Or ne’er return again into my sight.
Away, I say. Stayest thou to vex me here?
A slave that still an end turns me to shame.

[_Exit Lance with Crab._]

Sebastian, I have entertained thee
Partly that I have need of such a youth
That can with some discretion do my business—
For ’tis no trusting to yond foolish lout—
But chiefly for thy face and thy behaviour,
Which, if my augury deceive me not,
Witness good bringing up, fortune, and truth.
Therefore, know thou, for this I entertain thee.
Go presently, and take this ring with thee,
Deliver it to Madam Silvia.
She loved me well delivered it to me.

JULIA.
It seems you loved not her, to leave her token.
She’s dead belike?

PROTEUS.
Not so; I think she lives.

JULIA.
Alas!

