WILLIAM STAFFORD, his brother
LORD SCALES
LORD SAYE
MATTHEW GOUGH
Alexander IDEN, a Kentish gentleman

Lords, Ladies, and Attendants, Petitioners, Aldermen, a Herald, a
Beadle, Sheriff, and Officers, Citizens, Prentices, Falconers, Guards,
Soldiers, Messengers, &c.

A Spirit

SCENE: England.




ACT I

SCENE I. London. The palace


Flourish of trumpets, then hautboys. Enter the King, Gloucester,
Salisbury, Warwick, and Cardinal Beaufort on the one side; the Queen,
Suffolk, York, Somerset and Buckingham on the other.

SUFFOLK.
As by your high imperial Majesty
I had in charge at my depart for France,
As procurator to your excellence,
To marry Princess Margaret for your grace,
So, in the famous ancient city Tours,
In presence of the Kings of France and Sicil,
The Dukes of Orleans, Calaber, Bretagne, and Alençon,
Seven earls, twelve barons, and twenty reverend bishops,
I have performed my task and was espoused,
And humbly now upon my bended knee,
In sight of England and her lordly peers,
Deliver up my title in the Queen
To your most gracious hands, that are the substance
Of that great shadow I did represent:
The happiest gift that ever marquess gave,
The fairest queen that ever king received.

KING HENRY.
Suffolk, arise.—Welcome, Queen Margaret.
I can express no kinder sign of love
Than this kind kiss.—O Lord, that lends me life,
Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness!
For Thou hast given me in this beauteous face
A world of earthly blessings to my soul,
If sympathy of love unite our thoughts.

QUEEN MARGARET.
Great King of England and my gracious lord,
The mutual conference that my mind hath had
By day, by night, waking and in my dreams,
In courtly company or at my beads,
With you, mine alderliefest sovereign,
Makes me the bolder to salute my King
With ruder terms, such as my wit affords
And overjoy of heart doth minister.

KING HENRY.
Her sight did ravish, but her grace in speech,
Her words yclad with wisdom’s majesty,
Makes me from wondering fall to weeping joys,
Such is the fulness of my heart’s content.
Lords, with one cheerful voice welcome my love.

ALL.
[_Kneeling_.] Long live Queen Margaret, England’s happiness!

QUEEN MARGARET.
We thank you all.

[_Flourish._]

SUFFOLK.
My Lord Protector, so it please your grace,
Here are the articles of contracted peace
Between our sovereign and the French king Charles,
For eighteen months concluded by consent.

GLOUCESTER.
[_Reads_.] Imprimis, _it is agreed between the French king Charles and
William de la Pole, Marquess of Suffolk, ambassador for Henry, King of
England, that the said Henry shall espouse the Lady Margaret, daughter
unto Reignier King of Naples, Sicilia, and Jerusalem, and crown her
Queen of England ere the thirtieth of May next ensuing._ Item, _that
the duchy of Anjou and the county of Maine shall be released and
delivered to the King her father_—

[_Lets the paper fall._]

KING HENRY.
Uncle, how now?

GLOUCESTER.
Pardon me, gracious lord.
