
LORD.
Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery,
And give them friendly welcome everyone:
Let them want nothing that my house affords.

[_Exit one with the Players._]

Sirrah, go you to Barthol’mew my page,
And see him dress’d in all suits like a lady;
That done, conduct him to the drunkard’s chamber,
And call him ‘madam,’ do him obeisance.
Tell him from me—as he will win my love,—
He bear himself with honourable action,
Such as he hath observ’d in noble ladies
Unto their lords, by them accomplished;
Such duty to the drunkard let him do,
With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy,
And say ‘What is’t your honour will command,
Wherein your lady and your humble wife
May show her duty and make known her love?’
And then with kind embracements, tempting kisses,
And with declining head into his bosom,
Bid him shed tears, as being overjoy’d
To see her noble lord restor’d to health,
Who for this seven years hath esteemed him
No better than a poor and loathsome beggar.
And if the boy have not a woman’s gift
To rain a shower of commanded tears,
An onion will do well for such a shift,
Which, in a napkin being close convey’d,
Shall in despite enforce a watery eye.
See this dispatch’d with all the haste thou canst;
Anon I’ll give thee more instructions.

[_Exit Servant._]

I know the boy will well usurp the grace,
Voice, gait, and action of a gentlewoman;
I long to hear him call the drunkard husband;
And how my men will stay themselves from laughter
When they do homage to this simple peasant.
I’ll in to counsel them; haply my presence
May well abate the over-merry spleen,
Which otherwise would grow into extremes.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE II. A bedchamber in the Lord’s house.

Sly is discovered in a rich nightgown, with Attendants: some with
apparel, basin, ewer, and other appurtenances; and Lord, dressed like a
servant.

SLY.
For God’s sake! a pot of small ale.

FIRST SERVANT.
Will’t please your lordship drink a cup of sack?

SECOND SERVANT.
Will’t please your honour taste of these conserves?

THIRD SERVANT.
What raiment will your honour wear today?

SLY.
I am Christophero Sly; call not me honour nor lordship. I ne’er drank
sack in my life; and if you give me any conserves, give me conserves of
beef. Ne’er ask me what raiment I’ll wear, for I have no more doublets
than backs, no more stockings than legs, nor no more shoes than feet:
nay, sometime more feet than shoes, or such shoes as my toes look
through the over-leather.

LORD.
Heaven cease this idle humour in your honour!
O, that a mighty man of such descent,
Of such possessions, and so high esteem,
Should be infused with so foul a spirit!

SLY.
What! would you make me mad? Am not I Christopher Sly, old Sly’s son of
Burton-heath; by birth a pedlar, by education a cardmaker, by
transmutation a bear-herd, and now by present profession a tinker? Ask
Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of Wincot, if she know me not: if she
say I am not fourteen pence on the score for sheer ale, score me up for
the lyingest knave in Christendom. What! I am not bestraught. Here’s—

THIRD SERVANT.
O! this it is that makes your lady mourn.

SECOND SERVANT.
O! this is it that makes your servants droop.

LORD.
Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house,
As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.
O noble lord, bethink thee of thy birth,
Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment,
And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.
