’Twas an excellent dance,
And, for a preface, I never heard a better.

THESEUS.
Schoolmaster, I thank you.—One see’em all rewarded.

PIRITHOUS.
And here’s something to paint your pole withal.

[_He gives money._]

THESEUS.
Now to our sports again.

SCHOOLMASTER.
May the stag thou hunt’st stand long,
And thy dogs be swift and strong;
May they kill him without lets,
And the ladies eat his dowsets.

[_Exeunt Theseus, Pirithous, Hippolyta, Emilia, Arcite and Train. Horns
winded as they go out._]

Come, we are all made. _Dii deæque omnes_,
You have danced rarely, wenches.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE VI. The same part of the forest as in scene III.

Enter Palamon from the bush.

PALAMON.
About this hour my cousin gave his faith
To visit me again, and with him bring
Two swords and two good armours. If he fail,
He’s neither man nor soldier. When he left me,
I did not think a week could have restored
My lost strength to me, I was grown so low
And crestfall’n with my wants. I thank thee, Arcite,
Thou art yet a fair foe, and I feel myself,
With this refreshing, able once again
To outdure danger. To delay it longer
Would make the world think, when it comes to hearing,
That I lay fatting like a swine to fight
And not a soldier. Therefore, this blest morning
Shall be the last; and that sword he refuses,
If it but hold, I kill him with. ’Tis justice.
So, love and fortune for me!

Enter Arcite with armours and swords.

O, good morrow.

ARCITE.
Good morrow, noble kinsman.

PALAMON.
I have put you
To too much pains, sir.

ARCITE.
That too much, fair cousin,
Is but a debt to honour, and my duty.

PALAMON.
Would you were so in all, sir; I could wish ye
As kind a kinsman as you force me find
A beneficial foe, that my embraces
Might thank ye, not my blows.

ARCITE.
I shall think either,
Well done, a noble recompence.

PALAMON.
Then I shall quit you.

ARCITE.
Defy me in these fair terms, and you show
More than a mistress to me. No more anger,
As you love anything that’s honourable!
We were not bred to talk, man; when we are armed
And both upon our guards, then let our fury,
Like meeting of two tides, fly strongly from us;
And then to whom the birthright of this beauty
Truly pertains—without upbraidings, scorns,
Despisings of our persons, and such poutings,
Fitter for girls and schoolboys—will be seen,
And quickly, yours or mine. Will ’t please you arm, sir?
Or, if you feel yourself not fitting yet
And furnished with your old strength, I’ll stay, cousin,
And every day discourse you into health,
As I am spared. Your person I am friends with,
And I could wish I had not said I loved her,
Though I had died; but, loving such a lady,
And justifying my love, I must not fly from ’t.

PALAMON.
Arcite, thou art so brave an enemy,
