She and the Dauphin have been juggling.
I did imagine what would be her refuge.

WARWICK.
Well, go to; we’ll have no bastards live,
Especially since Charles must father it.

PUCELLE.
You are deceived; my child is none of his.
It was Alençon that enjoy’d my love.

YORK.
Alençon, that notorious Machiavel!
It dies and if it had a thousand lives.

PUCELLE.
O, give me leave, I have deluded you.
’Twas neither Charles nor yet the Duke I named,
But Reignier, King of Naples, that prevail’d.

WARWICK.
A married man! That’s most intolerable.

YORK.
Why, here’s a girl! I think she knows not well—
There were so many—whom she may accuse.

WARWICK.
It’s sign she hath been liberal and free.

YORK.
And yet, forsooth, she is a virgin pure!
Strumpet, thy words condemn thy brat and thee.
Use no entreaty, for it is in vain.

PUCELLE.
Then lead me hence, with whom I leave my curse:
May never glorious sun reflex his beams
Upon the country where you make abode;
But darkness and the gloomy shade of death
Environ you, till mischief and despair
Drive you to break your necks or hang yourselves!

[_Exit, guarded._]

YORK.
Break thou in pieces and consume to ashes,
Thou foul accursed minister of hell!

Enter Bishop of Winchester as Cardinal, attended.

WINCHESTER.
Lord Regent, I do greet your Excellence
With letters of commission from the King.
For know, my lords, the states of Christendom,
Moved with remorse of these outrageous broils,
Have earnestly implored a general peace
Betwixt our nation and the aspiring French;
And here at hand the Dauphin and his train
Approacheth to confer about some matter.

YORK.
Is all our travail turn’d to this effect?
After the slaughter of so many peers,
So many captains, gentlemen and soldiers,
That in this quarrel have been overthrown
And sold their bodies for their country’s benefit,
Shall we at last conclude effeminate peace?
Have we not lost most part of all the towns,
By treason, falsehood, and by treachery,
Our great progenitors had conquered?
O, Warwick, Warwick! I foresee with grief
The utter loss of all the realm of France.

WARWICK.
Be patient, York; if we conclude a peace,
It shall be with such strict and severe covenants
As little shall the Frenchmen gain thereby.

Enter Charles, Alençon, Bastard, Reignier and others.

CHARLES.
Since, lords of England, it is thus agreed
That peaceful truce shall be proclaim’d in France,
We come to be informed by yourselves
What the conditions of that league must be.

YORK.
Speak, Winchester, for boiling choler chokes
The hollow passage of my poison’d voice
By sight of these our baleful enemies.

WINCHESTER.
Charles, and the rest, it is enacted thus:
That, in regard King Henry gives consent,
Of mere compassion and of lenity,
To ease your country of distressful war,
And suffer you to breathe in fruitful peace,
You shall become true liegemen to his crown.
And, Charles, upon condition thou wilt swear
