BASSIANUS, brother to Saturninus

TITUS ANDRONICUS, a noble Roman, General against the Goths
MARCUS ANDRONICUS, Tribune of the People, and brother to Titus

LAVINIA, daughter to Titus Andronicus
LUCIUS, son to Titus Andronicus
QUINTUS, son to Titus Andronicus
MARTIUS, son to Titus Andronicus
MUTIUS, son to Titus Andronicus

YOUNG LUCIUS, a boy, son to Lucius
PUBLIUS, son to Marcus the Tribune

SEMPRONIUS, kinsman to Titus
CAIUS, kinsman to Titus
VALENTINE, kinsman to Titus

AEMILIUS, a noble Roman

TAMORA, Queen of the Goths
AARON, a Moor, beloved by Tamora
ALARBUS, son to Tamora
DEMETRIUS, son to Tamora
CHIRON, son to Tamora

A CAPTAIN
MESSENGER
A NURSE, and a black child
CLOWN
Goths and Romans

Tribunes, Senators, Officers, Soldiers, and Attendants

SCENE: Rome, and the Country near it




ACT I

SCENE I. Rome. Before the Capitol


Enter the Tribunes and Senators aloft. And then enter Saturninus and
his followers at one door, and Bassianus and his followers at the
other, with drums and trumpets.

SATURNINUS.
Noble patricians, patrons of my right,
Defend the justice of my cause with arms;
And, countrymen, my loving followers,
Plead my successive title with your swords.
I am his firstborn son that was the last
That wore the imperial diadem of Rome;
Then let my father’s honours live in me,
Nor wrong mine age with this indignity.

BASSIANUS.
Romans, friends, followers, favourers of my right,
If ever Bassianus, Caesar’s son,
Were gracious in the eyes of royal Rome,
Keep then this passage to the Capitol,
And suffer not dishonour to approach
The imperial seat, to virtue consecrate,
To justice, continence, and nobility;
But let desert in pure election shine,
And, Romans, fight for freedom in your choice.

Enter Marcus Andronicus aloft, holding the crown.

MARCUS.
Princes, that strive by factions and by friends
Ambitiously for rule and empery,
Know that the people of Rome, for whom we stand
A special party, have by common voice,
In election for the Roman empery,
Chosen Andronicus, surnamed Pius
For many good and great deserts to Rome.
A nobler man, a braver warrior,
Lives not this day within the city walls.
He by the senate is accited home
From weary wars against the barbarous Goths,
That with his sons, a terror to our foes,
Hath yoked a nation strong, trained up in arms.
Ten years are spent since first he undertook
This cause of Rome, and chastised with arms
Our enemies’ pride. Five times he hath returned
Bleeding to Rome, bearing his valiant sons
In coffins from the field.
And now at last, laden with honour’s spoils,
Returns the good Andronicus to Rome,
Renowned Titus, flourishing in arms.
Let us entreat, by honour of his name
Whom worthily you would have now succeed,
And in the Capitol and senate’s right,
Whom you pretend to honour and adore,
That you withdraw you and abate your strength,
Dismiss your followers, and, as suitors should,
Plead your deserts in peace and humbleness.
