As merry as crickets, my lad. But hark ye, what cunning match have you
made with this jest of the drawer? Come, what’s the issue?

PRINCE.
I am now of all humours that have showed themselves humours since the
old days of goodman Adam to the pupil age of this present twelve
o’clock at midnight.

Enter Francis.

What’s o’clock, Francis?

FRANCIS.
Anon, anon, sir.

[_Exit Francis._]

PRINCE.
That ever this fellow should have fewer words than a parrot, and yet
the son of a woman! His industry is upstairs and downstairs; his
eloquence the parcel of a reckoning. I am not yet of Percy’s mind, the
Hotspur of the north, he that kills me some six or seven dozen of Scots
at a breakfast, washes his hands, and says to his wife, “Fie upon this
quiet life! I want work.” “O my sweet Harry,” says she, “how many hast
thou killed today?” “Give my roan horse a drench,” says he; and
answers, “Some fourteen,” an hour after; “a trifle, a trifle.” I
prithee, call in Falstaff. I’ll play Percy, and that damned brawn shall
play Dame Mortimer his wife. _Rivo!_ says the drunkard. Call in Ribs,
call in Tallow.

Enter Falstaff, Gadshill, Bardolph and Peto; followed by Francis with
wine.

POINS.
Welcome, Jack. Where hast thou been?

FALSTAFF.
A plague of all cowards, I say, and a vengeance too! Marry, and amen!
Give me a cup of sack, boy. Ere I lead this life long, I’ll sew
nether-stocks, and mend them and foot them too. A plague of all
cowards! Give me a cup of sack, rogue. Is there no virtue extant?

[_Drinks._]

PRINCE.
Didst thou never see Titan kiss a dish of butter (pitiful-hearted
Titan!), that melted at the sweet tale of the sun’s? If thou didst,
then behold that compound.

FALSTAFF.
You rogue, here’s lime in this sack too: there is nothing but roguery
to be found in villainous man, yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack
with lime in it. A villanous coward! Go thy ways, old Jack. Die when
thou wilt, if manhood, good manhood, be not forgot upon the face of the
Earth, then am I a shotten herring. There lives not three good men
unhanged in England, and one of them is fat, and grows old, God help
the while, a bad world, I say. I would I were a weaver; I could sing
psalms or anything. A plague of all cowards, I say still.

PRINCE.
How now, wool-sack, what mutter you?

FALSTAFF.
A king’s son! If I do not beat thee out of thy kingdom with a dagger of
lath, and drive all thy subjects afore thee like a flock of wild-geese,
I’ll never wear hair on my face more. You, Prince of Wales!

PRINCE.
Why, you whoreson round man, what’s the matter?

FALSTAFF.
Are not you a coward? Answer me to that—and Poins there?

POINS.
Zounds, ye fat paunch, an ye call me coward, by the Lord, I’ll stab
thee.

FALSTAFF.
I call thee coward? I’ll see thee damned ere I call thee coward, but I
would give a thousand pound I could run as fast as thou canst. You are
straight enough in the shoulders, you care not who sees your back. Call
you that backing of your friends? A plague upon such backing! Give me
them that will face me.—Give me a cup of sack. I am a rogue if I drunk
today.

PRINCE.
O villain! Thy lips are scarce wiped since thou drunk’st last.

FALSTAFF.
All is one for that. A plague of all cowards, still say I.

[_Drinks._]

PRINCE.
What’s the matter?

FALSTAFF.
What’s the matter? There be four of us here have ta’en a thousand pound
this day morning.

