Though his right arm might purchase his own time
And be in debt to none, yet, more to move you,
Take my deserts to his and join ’em both.
And, for I know your reverend ages love
Security, I’ll pawn my victories, all
My honour, to you upon his good returns.
If by this crime he owes the law his life,
Why, let the war receive’t in valiant gore,
For law is strict, and war is nothing more.

FIRST SENATOR.
We are for law. He dies. Urge it no more,
On height of our displeasure. Friend or brother,
He forfeits his own blood that spills another.

ALCIBIADES.
Must it be so? It must not be.
My lords, I do beseech you, know me.

SECOND SENATOR.
How?

ALCIBIADES.
Call me to your remembrances.

THIRD SENATOR.
What?

ALCIBIADES.
I cannot think but your age has forgot me,
It could not else be I should prove so base
To sue and be denied such common grace.
My wounds ache at you.

FIRST SENATOR.
Do you dare our anger?
’Tis in few words, but spacious in effect:
We banish thee for ever.

ALCIBIADES.
Banish me?
Banish your dotage, banish usury,
That makes the Senate ugly.

FIRST SENATOR.
If, after two days’ shine, Athens contain thee,
Attend our weightier judgment.
And, not to swell our spirit,
He shall be executed presently.

[_Exeunt Senators._]

ALCIBIADES.
Now the gods keep you old enough, that you may live
Only in bone, that none may look on you!
I’m worse than mad. I have kept back their foes
While they have told their money and let out
Their coin upon large interest, I myself
Rich only in large hurts. All those for this?
Is this the balsam that the usuring senate
Pours into captains’ wounds? Banishment.
It comes not ill. I hate not to be banished.
It is a cause worthy my spleen and fury,
That I may strike at Athens. I’ll cheer up
My discontented troops and lay for hearts.
’Tis honour with most lands to be at odds.
Soldiers should brook as little wrongs as gods.

[_Exit._]

SCENE VI. A room of state in Timon’s house

Music. Enter divers Friends at several doors.

FIRST FRIEND.
The good time of day to you, sir.

SECOND FRIEND.
I also wish it to you. I think this honourable lord did but try us this
other day.

FIRST FRIEND.
Upon that were my thoughts tiring when we encountered. I hope it is not
so low with him as he made it seem in the trial of his several friends.

SECOND FRIEND.
It should not be, by the persuasion of his new feasting.

FIRST FRIEND.
I should think so. He hath sent me an earnest inviting, which many my
near occasions did urge me to put off; but he hath conjured me beyond
them, and I must needs appear.

SECOND FRIEND.
In like manner was I in debt to my importunate business, but he would
not hear my excuse. I am sorry, when he sent to borrow of me, that my
provision was out.

FIRST FRIEND.
I am sick of that grief too, as I understand how all things go.
