I must not have you henceforth question me
Whither I go, nor reason whereabout.
Whither I must, I must; and, to conclude,
This evening must I leave you, gentle Kate.
I know you wise, but yet no farther wise
Than Harry Percy’s wife; constant you are,
But yet a woman; and for secrecy,
No lady closer, for I well believe
Thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know;
And so far will I trust thee, gentle Kate.

LADY PERCY.
How? So far?

HOTSPUR.
Not an inch further. But hark you, Kate,
Whither I go, thither shall you go too.
Today will I set forth, tomorrow you.
Will this content you, Kate?

LADY PERCY.
It must, of force.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE IV. Eastcheap. A Room in the Boar’s Head Tavern.

Enter Prince Henry.

PRINCE.
Ned, prithee, come out of that fat room, and lend me thy hand to laugh
a little.

Enter Poins.

POINS.
Where hast been, Hal?

PRINCE.
With three or four loggerheads amongst three or fourscore hogsheads. I
have sounded the very base-string of humility. Sirrah, I am sworn
brother to a leash of drawers, and can call them all by their Christian
names, as Tom, Dick, and Francis. They take it already upon their
salvation, that though I be but Prince of Wales, yet I am the king of
courtesy, and tell me flatly I am no proud Jack, like Falstaff, but a
Corinthian, a lad of mettle, a good boy,—by the Lord, so they call
me—and when I am King of England, I shall command all the good lads in
Eastcheap. They call drinking deep, “dyeing scarlet,” and when you
breathe in your watering, they cry “Hem!” and bid you “Play it off!” To
conclude, I am so good a proficient in one quarter of an hour, that I
can drink with any tinker in his own language during my life. I tell
thee, Ned, thou hast lost much honour that thou wert not with me in
this action; but, sweet Ned—to sweeten which name of Ned, I give thee
this pennyworth of sugar, clapped even now into my hand by an
underskinker, one that never spake other English in his life than
“Eight shillings and sixpence,” and “You are welcome,” with this shrill
addition, “Anon, anon, sir! Score a pint of bastard in the Half-moon,”
or so. But, Ned, to drive away the time till Falstaff come, I prithee,
do thou stand in some by-room, while I question my puny drawer to what
end he gave me the sugar, and do thou never leave calling “Francis,”
that his tale to me may be nothing but “Anon.” Step aside, and I’ll
show thee a precedent.

[_Exit Poins._]

POINS.
[_Within_] Francis!

PRINCE.
Thou art perfect.

POINS.
[_Within_] Francis!

Enter Francis.

FRANCIS.
Anon, anon, sir.—Look down into the Pomegarnet, Ralph.

PRINCE.
Come hither, Francis.

FRANCIS.
My lord?

PRINCE.
How long hast thou to serve, Francis?

FRANCIS.
Forsooth, five years, and as much as to—

POINS.
[_within._] Francis!

FRANCIS.
Anon, anon, sir.

PRINCE.
Five year! By’r Lady, a long lease for the clinking of pewter! But,
Francis, darest thou be so valiant as to play the coward with thy
