Now, you companion, I’ll say an errand for you. You shall know now that
I am in estimation; you shall perceive that a Jack guardant cannot
office me from my son Coriolanus. Guess but by my entertainment with
him if thou stand’st not i’ th’ state of hanging or of some death more
long in spectatorship and crueller in suffering; behold now presently,
and swoon for what’s to come upon thee. [_to Coriolanus_.] The glorious
gods sit in hourly synod about thy particular prosperity and love thee
no worse than thy old father Menenius does! O my son, my son! Thou art
preparing fire for us; look thee, here’s water to quench it. I was
hardly moved to come to thee; but being assured none but myself could
move thee, I have been blown out of your gates with sighs, and conjure
thee to pardon Rome and thy petitionary countrymen. The good gods
assuage thy wrath and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet here, this,
who, like a block, hath denied my access to thee.

CORIOLANUS.
Away!

MENENIUS.
How? Away?

CORIOLANUS.
Wife, mother, child, I know not. My affairs
Are servanted to others. Though I owe
My revenge properly, my remission lies
In Volscian breasts. That we have been familiar,
Ingrate forgetfulness shall poison rather
Than pity note how much. Therefore begone.
Mine ears against your suits are stronger than
Your gates against my force. Yet, for I loved thee,
Take this along; I writ it for thy sake,

[_He gives Menenius a paper._]

And would have sent it. Another word, Menenius,
I will not hear thee speak.—This man, Aufidius,
Was my beloved in Rome; yet thou behold’st.

AUFIDIUS.
You keep a constant temper.

[_They exit._]

[_The Guard and Menenius remain._]

FIRST WATCH.
Now, sir, is your name Menenius?

SECOND WATCH.
’Tis a spell, you see, of much power. You know the way home again.

FIRST WATCH.
Do you hear how we are shent for keeping your Greatness back?

SECOND WATCH.
What cause do you think I have to swoon?

MENENIUS.
I neither care for th’ world nor your general. For such things as you,
I can scarce think there’s any, you’re so slight. He that hath a will
to die by himself fears it not from another. Let your general do his
worst. For you, be that you are, long; and your misery increase with
your age! I say to you, as I was said to, away!

[_Exit._]

FIRST WATCH.
A noble fellow, I warrant him.

SECOND WATCH.
The worthy fellow is our general. He is the rock, the oak not to be
wind-shaken.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE III. The tent of Coriolanus

Enter Coriolanus and Aufidius.

CORIOLANUS.
We will before the walls of Rome tomorrow
Set down our host. My partner in this action,
You must report to th’ Volscian lords how plainly
I have borne this business.

AUFIDIUS.
Only their ends
You have respected, stopped your ears against
The general suit of Rome; never admitted
A private whisper, no, not with such friends
That thought them sure of you.

CORIOLANUS.
This last old man,
Whom with cracked heart I have sent to Rome,
Loved me above the measure of a father,
Nay, godded me indeed. Their latest refuge
Was to send him, for whose old love I have—
Though I showed sourly to him—once more offered
The first conditions, which they did refuse
