afraid of this gunpowder Percy, though he be dead. How if he should
counterfeit too, and rise? By my faith, I am afraid he would prove the
better counterfeit. Therefore I’ll make him sure, yea, and I’ll swear I
killed him. Why may not he rise as well as I? Nothing confutes me but
eyes, and nobody sees me. Therefore, sirrah, with a new wound in your
thigh, come you along with me.

[_Takes Hotspur on his back._]

Enter Prince Henry and Lancaster.

PRINCE.
Come, brother John, full bravely hast thou flesh’d
Thy maiden sword.

LANCASTER.
But soft, whom have we here?
Did you not tell me this fat man was dead?

PRINCE.
I did; I saw him dead,
Breathless and bleeding on the ground.—Art thou alive?
Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight?
I prithee, speak, we will not trust our eyes
Without our ears. Thou art not what thou seem’st.

FALSTAFF.
No, that’s certain, I am not a double man. But if I be not Jack
Falstaff, then am I a Jack. There is Percy! [_Throwing the body down._]
If your father will do me any honour, so; if not, let him kill the next
Percy himself. I look to be either earl or duke, I can assure you.

PRINCE.
Why, Percy I kill’d myself, and saw thee dead.

FALSTAFF.
Didst thou? Lord, Lord, how this world is given to lying! I grant you I
was down and out of breath, and so was he, but we rose both at an
instant, and fought a long hour by Shrewsbury clock. If I may be
believed, so; if not, let them that should reward valour bear the sin
upon their own heads. I’ll take it upon my death, I gave him this wound
in the thigh. If the man were alive, and would deny it, zounds, I would
make him eat a piece of my sword.

LANCASTER.
This is the strangest tale that ever I heard.

PRINCE.
This is the strangest fellow, brother John.—
Come, bring your luggage nobly on your back.
For my part, if a lie may do thee grace,
I’ll gild it with the happiest terms I have.

[_A retreat is sounded._]

The trumpet sounds retreat; the day is ours.
Come, brother, let us to the highest of the field,
To see what friends are living, who are dead.

[_Exeunt Prince Henry and Lancaster._]

FALSTAFF.
I’ll follow, as they say, for reward. He that rewards me, God reward
him! If I do grow great, I’ll grow less, for I’ll purge, and leave
sack, and live cleanly as a nobleman should do.

[_Exit, bearing off the body._]

SCENE V. Another Part of the Field.

The trumpets sound. Enter King Henry, Prince Henry, Lancaster,
Westmoreland and others, with Worcester and Vernon prisoners.

KING.
Thus ever did rebellion find rebuke.
Ill-spirited Worcester, did not we send grace,
Pardon, and terms of love to all of you?
And wouldst thou turn our offers contrary?
Misuse the tenour of thy kinsman’s trust?
Three knights upon our party slain today,
A noble earl, and many a creature else,
Had been alive this hour,
If, like a Christian, thou hadst truly borne
Betwixt our armies true intelligence.

WORCESTER.
What I have done my safety urged me to;
And I embrace this fortune patiently,
Since not to be avoided it falls on me.

KING.
Bear Worcester to the death, and Vernon too.
Other offenders we will pause upon.

[_Exeunt Worcester and Vernon, guarded._]

How goes the field?

PRINCE.
The noble Scot, Lord Douglas, when he saw
