
Enter the Emperor Saturninus and Aaron the Moor.

SATURNINUS.
Along with me! I’ll see what hole is here,
And what he is that now is leapt into it.
Say, who art thou that lately didst descend
Into this gaping hollow of the earth?

MARTIUS.
The unhappy sons of old Andronicus,
Brought hither in a most unlucky hour,
To find thy brother Bassianus dead.

SATURNINUS.
My brother dead! I know thou dost but jest.
He and his lady both are at the lodge
Upon the north side of this pleasant chase;
’Tis not an hour since I left them there.

MARTIUS.
We know not where you left them all alive;
But, out, alas, here have we found him dead.

Enter Tamora, Titus Andronicus and Lucius.

TAMORA.
Where is my lord the king?

SATURNINUS.
Here, Tamora; though grieved with killing grief.

TAMORA.
Where is thy brother Bassianus?

SATURNINUS.
Now to the bottom dost thou search my wound.
Poor Bassianus here lies murdered.

TAMORA.
Then all too late I bring this fatal writ,
The complot of this timeless tragedy;
And wonder greatly that man’s face can fold
In pleasing smiles such murderous tyranny.

[_She giveth Saturnine a letter._]

SATURNINUS.
[_Reads_.] _An if we miss to meet him handsomely,
Sweet huntsman, Bassianus ’tis we mean,
Do thou so much as dig the grave for him;
Thou know’st our meaning. Look for thy reward
Among the nettles at the elder-tree
Which overshades the mouth of that same pit
Where we decreed to bury Bassianus.
Do this, and purchase us thy lasting friends._
O Tamora, was ever heard the like?
This is the pit, and this the elder-tree.
Look, sirs, if you can find the huntsman out
That should have murdered Bassianus here.

AARON.
My gracious lord, here is the bag of gold.

[_Showing it._]

SATURNINUS.
[_To Titus_.] Two of thy whelps, fell curs of bloody kind,
Have here bereft my brother of his life.
Sirs, drag them from the pit unto the prison.
There let them bide until we have devised
Some never-heard-of torturing pain for them.

TAMORA.
What, are they in this pit? O wondrous thing!
How easily murder is discovered!

TITUS.
High emperor, upon my feeble knee
I beg this boon, with tears not lightly shed,
That this fell fault of my accursed sons,
Accursed if the fault be proved in them—

SATURNINUS.
If it be proved! You see it is apparent.
Who found this letter? Tamora, was it you?

TAMORA.
Andronicus himself did take it up.

TITUS.
I did, my lord, yet let me be their bail;
For by my fathers’ reverend tomb I vow
They shall be ready at your highness’ will
To answer their suspicion with their lives.

SATURNINUS.
Thou shalt not bail them. See thou follow me.
Some bring the murdered body, some the murderers.
Let them not speak a word; the guilt is plain;
