And make me die the thrall of Margaret’s curse,
Nor mother, wife, nor England’s counted Queen.

STANLEY.
Full of wise care is this your counsel, madam.
Take all the swift advantage of the hours;
You shall have letters from me to my son
In your behalf, to meet you on the way.
Be not ta’en tardy by unwise delay.

DUCHESS.
O ill-dispersing wind of misery!
O my accursed womb, the bed of death!
A cockatrice hast thou hatched to the world,
Whose unavoided eye is murderous.

STANLEY.
Come, madam, come. I in all haste was sent.

ANNE.
And I with all unwillingness will go.
O, would to God that the inclusive verge
Of golden metal that must round my brow
Were red-hot steel, to sear me to the brains.
Anointed let me be with deadly venom,
And die ere men can say “God save the Queen.”

QUEEN ELIZABETH.
Go, go, poor soul; I envy not thy glory.
To feed my humour, wish thyself no harm.

ANNE.
No? Why? When he that is my husband now
Came to me as I followed Henry’s corse,
When scarce the blood was well washed from his hands
Which issued from my other angel husband,
And that dear saint which then I weeping followed;
O, when, I say, I looked on Richard’s face,
This was my wish: “Be thou,” quoth I, “accursed
For making me, so young, so old a widow;
And when thou wedd’st, let sorrow haunt thy bed;
And be thy wife, if any be so mad,
More miserable by the life of thee
Than thou hast made me by my dear lord’s death.”
Lo, ere I can repeat this curse again,
Within so small a time, my woman’s heart
Grossly grew captive to his honey words,
And proved the subject of mine own soul’s curse,
Which hitherto hath held my eyes from rest;
For never yet one hour in his bed
Did I enjoy the golden dew of sleep,
But with his timorous dreams was still awaked.
Besides, he hates me for my father Warwick,
And will, no doubt, shortly be rid of me.

QUEEN ELIZABETH.
Poor heart, adieu; I pity thy complaining.

ANNE.
No more than with my soul I mourn for yours.

DORSET.
Farewell, thou woeful welcomer of glory.

ANNE.
Adieu, poor soul, that tak’st thy leave of it.

DUCHESS.
[_To Dorset._] Go thou to Richmond, and good fortune guide thee.
[_To Anne._] Go thou to Richard, and good angels tend thee.
[_To Queen Elizabeth._] Go thou to sanctuary, and good thoughts possess
thee.
I to my grave, where peace and rest lie with me.
Eighty odd years of sorrow have I seen,
And each hour’s joy wracked with a week of teen.

QUEEN ELIZABETH.
Stay, yet look back with me unto the Tower.
Pity, you ancient stones, those tender babes
Whom envy hath immured within your walls—
Rough cradle for such little pretty one,
Rude ragged nurse, old sullen playfellow
For tender princes, use my babies well.
So foolish sorrows bids your stones farewell.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE II. London. A Room of State in the Palace

The trumpets sound a sennet. Enter Richard in pomp, Buckingham,
Catesby, Ratcliffe, Lovell, a Page and others.

KING RICHARD.
Stand all apart. Cousin of Buckingham!

BUCKINGHAM.
My gracious sovereign!

KING RICHARD.
Give me thy hand.
