DOCTOR.
How her brain coins!

DAUGHTER.
Lords and courtiers that have got maids with child, they are in this
place. They shall stand in fire up to the navel and in ice up to the
heart, and there th’ offending part burns and the deceiving part
freezes. In troth, a very grievous punishment, as one would think, for
such a trifle. Believe me, one would marry a leprous witch to be rid on
’t, I’ll assure you.

DOCTOR.
How she continues this fancy! ’Tis not an engraffed madness, but a most
thick, and profound melancholy.

DAUGHTER.
To hear there a proud lady and a proud city wife howl together! I were
a beast an I’d call it good sport. One cries “O this smoke!” th’ other,
“This fire!”; one cries, “O, that ever I did it behind the arras!” and
then howls; th’ other curses a suing fellow and her garden house.

[_Sings._]
    _I will be true, my stars, my fate, &c._

[_Exit Jailer’s Daughter._]

JAILER.
What think you of her, sir?

DOCTOR.
I think she has a perturbed mind, which I cannot minister to.

JAILER.
Alas, what then?

DOCTOR.
Understand you she ever affected any man ere she beheld Palamon?

JAILER.
I was once, sir, in great hope she had fixed her liking on this
gentleman, my friend.

WOOER.
I did think so too, and would account I had a great penn’orth on’t, to
give half my state, that both she and I at this present stood
unfeignedly on the same terms.

DOCTOR.
That intemperate surfeit of her eye hath distempered the other senses.
They may return and settle again to execute their preordained
faculties, but they are now in a most extravagant vagary. This you must
do: confine her to a place where the light may rather seem to steal in
than be permitted. Take upon you, young sir, her friend, the name of
Palamon; say you come to eat with her, and to commune of love. This
will catch her attention, for this her mind beats upon; other objects
that are inserted ’tween her mind and eye become the pranks and
friskins of her madness. Sing to her such green songs of love as she
says Palamon hath sung in prison. Come to her stuck in as sweet flowers
as the season is mistress of, and thereto make an addition of some
other compounded odours which are grateful to the sense. All this shall
become Palamon, for Palamon can sing, and Palamon is sweet and every
good thing. Desire to eat with her, carve her, drink to her, and still
among intermingle your petition of grace and acceptance into her
favour. Learn what maids have been her companions and play-feres, and
let them repair to her with Palamon in their mouths, and appear with
tokens, as if they suggested for him. It is a falsehood she is in,
which is with falsehoods to be combated. This may bring her to eat, to
sleep, and reduce what’s now out of square in her into their former law
and regiment. I have seen it approved, how many times I know not, but
to make the number more I have great hope in this. I will, between the
passages of this project, come in with my appliance. Let us put it in
execution and hasten the success, which, doubt not, will bring forth
comfort.

[_Exeunt._]




ACT V

SCENE I. Athens. Before the Temples of Mars, Venus, and Diana


Flourish. Enter Theseus, Pirithous, Hippolyta and Attendants.

THESEUS.
Now let ’em enter and before the gods
Tender their holy prayers. Let the temples
Burn bright with sacred fires, and the altars
In hallowed clouds commend their swelling incense
To those above us. Let no due be wanting.
They have a noble work in hand, will honour
The very powers that love ’em.

PIRITHOUS.
Sir, they enter.

Enter Palamon and Arcite and their Knights.

