Will’t hold, will’t hold?

SECOND FRIEND.
It does, but time will—and so—

THIRD FRIEND.
I do conceive.

TIMON.
Each man to his stool with that spur as he would to the lip of his
mistress. Your diet shall be in all places alike. Make not a city feast
of it, to let the meat cool ere we can agree upon the first place. Sit,
sit. The gods require our thanks:
You great benefactors, sprinkle our society with thankfulness. For your
own gifts make yourselves praised, but reserve still to give, lest your
deities be despised. Lend to each man enough, that one need not lend to
another; for, were your godheads to borrow of men, men would forsake
the gods. Make the meat be beloved more than the man that gives it. Let
no assembly of twenty be without a score of villains. If there sit
twelve women at the table, let a dozen of them be as they are. The rest
of your foes, O gods, the senators of Athens, together with the common
lag of people, what is amiss in them, you gods, make suitable for
destruction. For these my present friends, as they are to me nothing,
so in nothing bless them, and to nothing are they welcome.
Uncover, dogs, and lap.

[_The dishes  are uncovered and prove to be full of lukewarm water._]

SOME SPEAK.
What does his lordship mean?

SOME OTHER.
I know not.

TIMON.
May you a better feast never behold,
You knot of mouth-friends! Smoke and lukewarm water
Is your perfection. This is Timon’s last,
Who, stuck and spangled with your flatteries,
Washes it off and sprinkles in your faces
Your reeking villainy.

[_Throws water in their faces._]

Live loathed, and long,
Most smiling, smooth, detested parasites,
Courteous destroyers, affable wolves, meek bears,
You fools of fortune, trencher-friends, time’s flies,
Cap-and-knee slaves, vapours, and minute-jacks!
Of man and beast the infinite malady
Crust you quite o’er! [_They stand_.] What, dost thou go?
Soft! Take thy physic first; thou too, and thou!
Stay, I will lend thee money, borrow none.

[_He attacks them and forces them out._]

What, all in motion? Henceforth be no feast
Whereat a villain’s not a welcome guest.
Burn, house! Sink Athens! Henceforth hated be
Of Timon man and all humanity!

[_Exit._]

Enter Timon’s Friends, the Senators with other Lords.

FIRST FRIEND.
How now, my lords?

SECOND FRIEND.
Know you the quality of Lord Timon’s fury?

THIRD FRIEND.
Push! Did you see my cap?

FOURTH FRIEND.
I have lost my gown.

FIRST FRIEND.
He’s but a mad lord, and nought but humours sways him. He gave me a
jewel th’ other day, and now he has beat it out of my hat. Did you see
my jewel?

THIRD FRIEND.
Did you see my cap?

SECOND FRIEND.
Here ’tis.

FOURTH FRIEND.
Here lies my gown.

FIRST FRIEND.
Let’s make no stay.

SECOND FRIEND.
Lord Timon’s mad.

THIRD FRIEND.
I feel’t upon my bones.

