To say thou’lt enter friendly.

SECOND SENATOR.
Throw thy glove,
Or any token of thine honour else,
That thou wilt use the wars as thy redress
And not as our confusion, all thy powers
Shall make their harbour in our town till we
Have sealed thy full desire.

ALCIBIADES.
Then there’s my glove;
Descend and open your uncharged ports.
Those enemies of Timon’s and mine own
Whom you yourselves shall set out for reproof
Fall, and no more. And, to atone your fears
With my more noble meaning, not a man
Shall pass his quarter or offend the stream
Of regular justice in your city’s bounds,
But shall be remedied to your public laws
At heaviest answer.

BOTH.
’Tis most nobly spoken.

ALCIBIADES.
Descend, and keep your words.

[_The Senators descend._]

Enter a Soldier.

SOLDIER.
My noble general, Timon is dead,
Entombed upon the very hem o’ th’ sea,
And on his gravestone this insculpture, which
With wax I brought away, whose soft impression
Interprets for my poor ignorance.

ALCIBIADES.
[_Reads the Epitaph._] _Here lies a wretched corse, of wretched soul
bereft.
Seek not my name. A plague consume you, wicked caitiffs left!
Here lie I, Timon, who alive all living men did hate.
Pass by and curse thy fill, but pass and stay not here thy gait._
These well express in thee thy latter spirits.
Though thou abhorred’st in us our human griefs,
Scorned’st our brains’ flow and those our droplets which
From niggard nature fall, yet rich conceit
Taught thee to make vast Neptune weep for aye
On thy low grave, on faults forgiven. Dead
Is noble Timon, of whose memory
Hereafter more. Bring me into your city,
And I will use the olive with my sword,
Make war breed peace, make peace stint war, make each
Prescribe to other, as each other’s leech.
Let our drums strike.

[_Exeunt._]




THE TRAGEDY OF TITUS ANDRONICUS




Contents

 ACT I
 Scene I. Rome. Before the Capitol

 ACT II
 Scene I. Rome. Before the palace
 Scene II. A Forest near Rome; a Lodge seen at a distance. Horns and cry of hounds heard
 Scene III. A lonely part of the Forest
 Scene IV. Another part of the Forest

 ACT III
 Scene I. Rome. A street
 Scene II. Rome. A Room in Titus’s House. A banquet set out

 ACT IV
 Scene I. Rome. Before Titus’s House
 Scene II. Rome. A Room in the Palace
 Scene III. Rome. A public Place
 Scene IV. Rome. Before the Palace

 ACT V
 Scene I. Plains near Rome
 Scene II. Rome. Before Titus’s House
 Scene III. Rome. A Pavilion in Titus’s Gardens, with tables, &c.




Dramatis Personæ

SATURNINUS, elder son to the late Emperor of Rome, afterwards Emperor
