His DAUGHTER, in love with Palamon
His BROTHER,
The WOOER of the Jailer’s daughter
Two FRIENDS of the Jailer,
A DOCTOR

ARTESIUS, an Athenian soldier
VALERIUS, a Theban
WOMAN, attending on Emilia
An Athenian GENTLEMAN
Six KNIGHTS, three accompanying Arcite, three Palamon

Six COUNTRYMEN, one dressed as a Bavian or baboon
Gerald, a SCHOOLMASTER
NEL, a countrywoman
A TABORER

A singing BOY
A HERALD
A MESSENGER
A SERVANT

EPILOGUE

Hymen (god of weddings), lords, soldiers, four countrywomen (Fritz,
Maudlin, Luce, and Barbary), nymphs, attendants, maids, executioner,
guard

SCENE: Athens and the Neighbourhood, except in part of the first Act,
where it is Thebes and the Neighbourhood




PROLOGUE


Flourish. Enter Prologue.

PROLOGUE.
New plays and maidenheads are near akin:
Much followed both, for both much money gi’en,
If they stand sound and well. And a good play,
Whose modest scenes blush on his marriage day
And shake to lose his honour, is like her
That after holy tie and first night’s stir
Yet still is Modesty, and still retains
More of the maid, to sight, than husband’s pains.
We pray our play may be so, for I am sure
It has a noble breeder and a pure,
A learned, and a poet never went
More famous yet ’twixt Po and silver Trent.
Chaucer, of all admired, the story gives;
There, constant to eternity, it lives.
If we let fall the nobleness of this,
And the first sound this child hear be a hiss,
How will it shake the bones of that good man
And make him cry from underground, “O, fan
From me the witless chaff of such a writer
That blasts my bays and my famed works makes lighter
Than Robin Hood!” This is the fear we bring;
For, to say truth, it were an endless thing
And too ambitious, to aspire to him,
Weak as we are, and, almost breathless, swim
In this deep water. Do but you hold out
Your helping hands, and we shall tack about
And something do to save us. You shall hear
Scenes, though below his art, may yet appear
Worth two hours’ travel. To his bones sweet sleep;
Content to you. If this play do not keep
A little dull time from us, we perceive
Our losses fall so thick, we must needs leave.

[_Flourish. Exit._]




ACT I

SCENE I. Athens. Before a temple


Enter Hymen with a torch burning; a Boy, in a white robe before
singing, and strewing flowers. After Hymen, a Nymph encompassed in her
tresses, bearing a wheaten garland; then Theseus between two other
Nymphs with wheaten chaplets on their heads. Then Hippolyta, the bride,
led by Pirithous, and another holding a garland over her head, her
tresses likewise hanging. After her, Emilia, holding up her train. Then
Artesius and Attendants.

[_Music._]

The Song

_Roses, their sharp spines being gone,
Not royal in their smells alone,
    But in their hue;
Maiden pinks of odour faint,
Daisies smell-less, yet most quaint,
