I mean to tug it and to cuff you soundly.
Under my feet I’ll stamp thy cardinal’s hat;
In spite of Pope or dignities of church,
Here by the cheeks I’ll drag thee up and down.

WINCHESTER.
Gloucester, thou wilt answer this before the Pope.

GLOUCESTER.
Winchester goose, I cry, “a rope, a rope!”
Now beat them hence; why do you let them stay?
Thee I’ll chase hence, thou wolf in sheep’s array.
Out, tawny coats! Out, scarlet hypocrite!

Here Gloucester’s men beat out the Cardinal’s men, and enter in the
hurly-burly the Mayor of London and his Officers.

MAYOR.
Fie, lords, that you, being supreme magistrates,
Thus contumeliously should break the peace!

GLOUCESTER.
Peace, Mayor! Thou know’st little of my wrongs.
Here’s Beaufort, that regards nor God nor king,
Hath here distrain’d the Tower to his use.

WINCHESTER.
Here’s Gloucester, a foe to citizens,
One that still motions war and never peace,
O’ercharging your free purses with large fines;
That seeks to overthrow religion,
Because he is Protector of the realm,
And would have armour here out of the Tower,
To crown himself king and suppress the Prince.

GLOUCESTER.
I will not answer thee with words, but blows.

[_Here they skirmish again._]

MAYOR.
Nought rests for me in this tumultuous strife
But to make open proclamation.
Come, officer, as loud as e’er thou canst, cry.

OFFICER.
All manner of men assembled here in arms this day against God’s peace
and the King’s, we charge and command you, in his Highness’ name, to
repair to your several dwelling-places; and not to wear, handle, or use
any sword, weapon, or dagger, henceforward, upon pain of death.

GLOUCESTER.
Cardinal, I’ll be no breaker of the law;
But we shall meet and break our minds at large.

WINCHESTER.
Gloucester, we will meet, to thy cost, be sure;
Thy heart-blood I will have for this day’s work.

MAYOR.
I’ll call for clubs, if you will not away.
This Cardinal’s more haughty than the devil.

GLOUCESTER.
Mayor, farewell. Thou dost but what thou mayst.

WINCHESTER.
Abominable Gloucester, guard thy head,
For I intend to have it ere long.

[_Exeunt, severally, Gloucester and Winchester with their Servingmen._]

MAYOR.
See the coast clear’d, and then we will depart.
Good God, these nobles should such stomachs bear!
I myself fight not once in forty year.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE IV. Orleans.

Enter, on the walls, a Master Gunner and his Boy.

MASTER GUNNER.
Sirrah, thou know’st how Orleans is besieged,
And how the English have the suburbs won.

BOY.
Father, I know; and oft have shot at them,
Howe’er unfortunate I miss’d my aim.

MASTER GUNNER.
But now thou shalt not. Be thou ruled by me.
Chief master-gunner am I of this town;
Something I must do to procure me grace.
The Prince’s espials have informed me
How the English, in the suburbs close intrench’d,
Wont, through a secret grate of iron bars
In yonder tower, to overpeer the city,
And thence discover how with most advantage
