me, Kate, to conquer the kingdom as to speak so much more French. I
shall never move thee in French, unless it be to laugh at me.

KATHARINE.
_Sauf votre honneur, le français que vous parlez, il est meilleur que
l’anglais lequel je parle._

KING HENRY.
No, faith, is’t not, Kate; but thy speaking of my tongue, and I thine,
most truly-falsely, must needs be granted to be much at one. But, Kate,
dost thou understand thus much English: canst thou love me?

KATHARINE.
I cannot tell.

KING HENRY.
Can any of your neighbours tell, Kate? I’ll ask them. Come, I know thou
lovest me; and at night, when you come into your closet, you’ll
question this gentlewoman about me; and I know, Kate, you will to her
dispraise those parts in me that you love with your heart. But, good
Kate, mock me mercifully; the rather, gentle princess, because I love
thee cruelly. If ever thou beest mine, Kate, as I have a saving faith
within me tells me thou shalt, I get thee with scambling, and thou must
therefore needs prove a good soldier-breeder. Shall not thou and I,
between Saint Denis and Saint George, compound a boy, half French, half
English, that shall go to Constantinople and take the Turk by the
beard? Shall we not? What say’st thou, my fair flower-de-luce?

KATHARINE.
I do not know dat.

KING HENRY.
No; ’tis hereafter to know, but now to promise. Do but now promise,
Kate, you will endeavour for your French part of such a boy; and for my
English moiety, take the word of a king and a bachelor. How answer you,
_la plus belle Katherine du monde, mon très cher et divin déesse?_

KATHARINE.
Your Majestee ’ave _fausse_ French enough to deceive de most _sage
demoiselle_ dat is _en France_.

KING HENRY.
Now, fie upon my false French! By mine honour, in true English, I love
thee, Kate; by which honour I dare not swear thou lovest me; yet my
blood begins to flatter me that thou dost, notwithstanding the poor and
untempering effect of my visage. Now, beshrew my father’s ambition! He
was thinking of civil wars when he got me; therefore was I created with
a stubborn outside, with an aspect of iron, that, when I come to woo
ladies, I fright them. But, in faith, Kate, the elder I wax, the better
I shall appear. My comfort is, that old age, that ill layer up of
beauty, can do no more spoil upon my face. Thou hast me, if thou hast
me, at the worst; and thou shalt wear me, if thou wear me, better and
better; and therefore tell me, most fair Katharine, will you have me?
Put off your maiden blushes; avouch the thoughts of your heart with the
looks of an empress; take me by the hand, and say, Harry of England, I
am thine; which word thou shalt no sooner bless mine ear withal, but I
will tell thee aloud, England is thine, Ireland is thine, France is
thine, and Henry Plantagenet is thine; who, though I speak it before
his face, if he be not fellow with the best king, thou shalt find the
best king of good fellows. Come, your answer in broken music; for thy
voice is music and thy English broken; therefore, queen of all,
Katharine, break thy mind to me in broken English. Wilt thou have me?

KATHARINE.
Dat is as it shall please _le roi mon père_.

KING HENRY.
Nay, it will please him well, Kate; it shall please him, Kate.

KATHARINE.
Den it sall also content me.

KING HENRY.
Upon that I kiss your hand, and call you my queen.

KATHARINE.
_Laissez, mon seigneur, laissez, laissez! Ma foi, je ne veux point que
vous abaissiez votre grandeur en baisant la main d’une—Notre
Seigneur!—indigne serviteur. Excusez-moi, je vous supplie, mon
très-puissant seigneur._

KING HENRY.
Then I will kiss your lips, Kate.

KATHARINE.
_Les dames et demoiselles pour être baisées devant leurs noces, il
n’est pas la coutume de France._

KING HENRY.
Madame my interpreter, what says she?

ALICE.
Dat it is not be de fashion _pour les_ ladies of France,—I cannot tell
wat is _baiser en_ Anglish.

KING HENRY.
To kiss.

ALICE.
Your Majestee _entend_ bettre _que moi_.
