POST.
That Edward is escaped from your brother
And fled, as he hears since, to Burgundy.

WARWICK.
Unsavoury news! But how made he escape?

POST.
He was conveyed by Richard, Duke of Gloucester
And the Lord Hastings, who attended him
In secret ambush on the forest side
And from the Bishop’s huntsmen rescued him,
For hunting was his daily exercise.

WARWICK.
My brother was too careless of his charge.
But let us hence, my sovereign, to provide
A salve for any sore that may betide.

[_Exeunt all but Somerset, Richmond and Oxford._]

SOMERSET.
My lord, I like not of this flight of Edward’s,
For doubtless Burgundy will yield him help,
And we shall have more wars before ’t be long.
As Henry’s late presaging prophecy
Did glad my heart with hope of this young Richmond,
So doth my heart misgive me, in these conflicts
What may befall him, to his harm and ours.
Therefore, Lord Oxford, to prevent the worst,
Forthwith we’ll send him hence to Brittany
Till storms be past of civil enmity.

OXFORD.
Ay, for if Edward repossess the crown,
’Tis like that Richmond with the rest shall down.

SOMERSET.
It shall be so. He shall to Brittany.
Come therefore, let’s about it speedily.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE VII. Before York

Flourish. Enter King Edward, Richard (Duke of Gloucester), Hastings and
Soldiers.

KING EDWARD.
Now, brother Richard, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
Yet thus far Fortune maketh us amends,
And says that once more I shall interchange
My waned state for Henry’s regal crown.
Well have we passed and now repassed the seas,
And brought desired help from Burgundy.
What then remains, we being thus arrived
From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York,
But that we enter as into our dukedom?

RICHARD.
The gates made fast! Brother, I like not this;
For many men that stumble at the threshold
Are well foretold that danger lurks within.

KING EDWARD.
Tush, man, abodements must not now affright us.
By fair or foul means we must enter in,
For hither will our friends repair to us.

HASTINGS.
My liege, I’ll knock once more to summon them.

Enter on the walls, the Mayor of York and his Brethren.

MAYOR.
My lords, we were forewarned of your coming
And shut the gates for safety of ourselves,
For now we owe allegiance unto Henry.

KING EDWARD.
But, master Mayor, if Henry be your king,
Yet Edward, at the least, is Duke of York.

MAYOR.
True, my good lord, I know you for no less.

KING EDWARD.
Why, and I challenge nothing but my dukedom,
As being well content with that alone.

RICHARD.
[_Aside_.] But when the fox hath once got in his nose,
He’ll soon find means to make the body follow.

HASTINGS.
Why, master Mayor, why stand you in a doubt?
Open the gates; we are King Henry’s friends.

MAYOR.
Ay, say you so? The gates shall then be opened.
