
GONZALO.
Was Milan thrust from Milan, that his issue
Should become Kings of Naples? O, rejoice
Beyond a common joy, and set it down
With gold on lasting pillars: in one voyage
Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis,
And Ferdinand, her brother, found a wife
Where he himself was lost; Prospero his dukedom
In a poor isle; and all of us ourselves,
When no man was his own.

ALONSO.
[_To Ferdinand and Miranda._] Give me your hands:
Let grief and sorrow still embrace his heart
That doth not wish you joy!

GONZALO.
Be it so. Amen!

 Re-enter Ariel with the Master and Boatswain amazedly following.

O look, sir, look, sir! Here are more of us.
I prophesied, if a gallows were on land,
This fellow could not drown. Now, blasphemy,
That swear’st grace o’erboard, not an oath on shore?
Hast thou no mouth by land? What is the news?

BOATSWAIN.
The best news is that we have safely found
Our King and company. The next, our ship,—
Which but three glasses since, we gave out split,
Is tight and yare, and bravely rigg’d as when
We first put out to sea.

ARIEL.
[_Aside to Prospero._] Sir, all this service
Have I done since I went.

PROSPERO.
[_Aside to Ariel._] My tricksy spirit!

ALONSO.
These are not natural events; they strengthen
From strange to stranger. Say, how came you hither?

BOATSWAIN.
If I did think, sir, I were well awake,
I’d strive to tell you. We were dead of sleep,
And,—how, we know not,—all clapp’d under hatches,
Where, but even now, with strange and several noises
Of roaring, shrieking, howling, jingling chains,
And mo diversity of sounds, all horrible,
We were awak’d; straightway, at liberty:
Where we, in all her trim, freshly beheld
Our royal, good, and gallant ship; our master
Cap’ring to eye her. On a trice, so please you,
Even in a dream, were we divided from them,
And were brought moping hither.

ARIEL.
[_Aside to Prospero._] Was’t well done?

PROSPERO.
[_Aside to Ariel._] Bravely, my diligence. Thou shalt be free.

ALONSO.
This is as strange a maze as e’er men trod;
And there is in this business more than nature
Was ever conduct of: some oracle
Must rectify our knowledge.

PROSPERO.
Sir, my liege,
Do not infest your mind with beating on
The strangeness of this business. At pick’d leisure,
Which shall be shortly, single I’ll resolve you,
Which to you shall seem probable, of every
These happen’d accidents; till when, be cheerful
And think of each thing well. [_Aside to Ariel._] Come hither, spirit;
Set Caliban and his companions free;
Untie the spell.

 [_Exit Ariel._]

 How fares my gracious sir?
There are yet missing of your company
Some few odd lads that you remember not.

 Re-enter Ariel driving in Caliban, Stephano and Trinculo in their
 stolen apparel.

STEPHANO.
Every man shift for all the rest, and let no man take care for himself,
for all is but fortune.—Coragio! bully-monster, coragio!

TRINCULO.
If these be true spies which I wear in my head, here’s a goodly sight.

CALIBAN.
