First told me thou wast mad; then cam’st in smiling,
And in such forms which here were presuppos’d
Upon thee in the letter. Prithee, be content.
This practice hath most shrewdly pass’d upon thee.
But when we know the grounds and authors of it,
Thou shalt be both the plaintiff and the judge
Of thine own cause.

FABIAN.
Good madam, hear me speak,
And let no quarrel, nor no brawl to come,
Taint the condition of this present hour,
Which I have wonder’d at. In hope it shall not,
Most freely I confess, myself and Toby
Set this device against Malvolio here,
Upon some stubborn and uncourteous parts
We had conceiv’d against him. Maria writ
The letter, at Sir Toby’s great importance,
In recompense whereof he hath married her.
How with a sportful malice it was follow’d
May rather pluck on laughter than revenge,
If that the injuries be justly weigh’d
That have on both sides passed.

OLIVIA.
Alas, poor fool, how have they baffled thee!

CLOWN.
Why, ‘some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have
greatness thrown upon them.’ I was one, sir, in this interlude, one Sir
Topas, sir, but that’s all one. ‘By the Lord, fool, I am not mad.’ But
do you remember? ‘Madam, why laugh you at such a barren rascal? And you
smile not, he’s gagged’? And thus the whirligig of time brings in his
revenges.

MALVOLIO.
I’ll be revenged on the whole pack of you.

 [_Exit._]

OLIVIA.
He hath been most notoriously abus’d.

DUKE.
Pursue him, and entreat him to a peace:
He hath not told us of the captain yet.
When that is known, and golden time convents,
A solemn combination shall be made
Of our dear souls.—Meantime, sweet sister,
We will not part from hence.—Cesario, come:
For so you shall be while you are a man;
But when in other habits you are seen,
Orsino’s mistress, and his fancy’s queen.

 [_Exeunt._]

 Clown sings.

_   When that I was and a little tiny boy,
     With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
   A foolish thing was but a toy,
     For the rain it raineth every day._

_   But when I came to man’s estate,
     With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
   ’Gainst knaves and thieves men shut their gate,
     For the rain it raineth every day._

_   But when I came, alas, to wive,
     With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
   By swaggering could I never thrive,
     For the rain it raineth every day._

_   But when I came unto my beds,
     With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
   With toss-pots still had drunken heads,
     For the rain it raineth every day._

_   A great while ago the world begun,
     With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
   But that’s all one, our play is done,
     And we’ll strive to please you every day._

 [_Exit._]




THE TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA




Contents

 ACT I
 Scene I. Verona. An open place
 Scene II. The same. The garden of Julia’s house
 Scene III. The same. A room in Antonio’s house

