Nor will not. Come, bring me unto my chance.

PORTIA.
First, forward to the temple. After dinner
Your hazard shall be made.

PRINCE OF MOROCCO.
Good fortune then,
To make me blest or cursed’st among men!

 [_Cornets. Exeunt._]

SCENE II. Venice. A street.

 Enter Launcelet Gobbo, the clown, alone.

LAUNCELET.
Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this Jew my master.
The fiend is at mine elbow and tempts me, saying to me “Gobbo,
Launcelet Gobbo, good Launcelet” or “good Gobbo,” or “good Launcelet
Gobbo, use your legs, take the start, run away.” My conscience says
“No; take heed, honest Launcelet, take heed, honest Gobbo” or, as
aforesaid, “honest Launcelet Gobbo, do not run, scorn running with thy
heels.” Well, the most courageous fiend bids me pack. “Fia!” says the
fiend, “away!” says the fiend. “For the heavens, rouse up a brave
mind,” says the fiend, “and run.” Well, my conscience, hanging about
the neck of my heart, says very wisely to me “My honest friend
Launcelet, being an honest man’s son”—or rather an honest woman’s son,
for indeed my father did something smack, something grow to, he had a
kind of taste;—well, my conscience says “Launcelet, budge not.”
“Budge,” says the fiend. “Budge not,” says my conscience. “Conscience,”
say I, “you counsel well.” “Fiend,” say I, “you counsel well.” To be
ruled by my conscience, I should stay with the Jew my master, who, (God
bless the mark) is a kind of devil; and, to run away from the Jew, I
should be ruled by the fiend, who (saving your reverence) is the devil
himself. Certainly the Jew is the very devil incarnation, and, in my
conscience, my conscience is but a kind of hard conscience, to offer to
counsel me to stay with the Jew. The fiend gives the more friendly
counsel. I will run, fiend, my heels are at your commandment, I will
run.

 Enter Old Gobbo with a basket.

GOBBO.
Master young man, you, I pray you; which is the way to Master Jew’s?

LAUNCELET.
[_Aside._] O heavens, this is my true-begotten father, who being more
than sand-blind, high-gravel blind, knows me not. I will try confusions
with him.

GOBBO.
Master young gentleman, I pray you, which is the way to Master Jew’s?

LAUNCELET.
Turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but at the next turning
of all on your left; marry, at the very next turning, turn of no hand,
but turn down indirectly to the Jew’s house.

GOBBO.
Be God’s sonties, ’twill be a hard way to hit. Can you tell me whether
one Launcelet, that dwells with him, dwell with him or no?

LAUNCELET.
Talk you of young Master Launcelet? [_Aside._] Mark me now, now will I
raise the waters. Talk you of young Master Launcelet?

GOBBO.
No master, sir, but a poor man’s son, his father, though I say’t, is an
honest exceeding poor man, and, God be thanked, well to live.

LAUNCELET.
Well, let his father be what he will, we talk of young Master
Launcelet.

GOBBO.
Your worship’s friend, and Launcelet, sir.

LAUNCELET.
But I pray you, _ergo_, old man, _ergo_, I beseech you, talk you of
young Master Launcelet?

GOBBO.
Of Launcelet, an’t please your mastership.

LAUNCELET.
_Ergo_, Master Launcelet. Talk not of Master Launcelet, father, for the
young gentleman, according to Fates and Destinies, and such odd
sayings, the Sisters Three and such branches of learning, is indeed
deceased, or, as you would say in plain terms, gone to heaven.

GOBBO.
Marry, God forbid! The boy was the very staff of my age, my very prop.

LAUNCELET.
[_Aside._] Do I look like a cudgel or a hovel-post, a staff or a prop?
Do you know me, father?

GOBBO.
Alack the day! I know you not, young gentleman, but I pray you tell me,
