order, out of all compass.

BARDOLPH.
Why, you are so fat, Sir John, that you must needs be out of all
compass, out of all reasonable compass, Sir John.

FALSTAFF.
Do thou amend thy face, and I’ll amend my life. Thou art our admiral,
thou bearest the lantern in the poop, but ’tis in the nose of thee.
Thou art the Knight of the Burning Lamp.

BARDOLPH.
Why, Sir John, my face does you no harm.

FALSTAFF.
No, I’ll be sworn, I make as good use of it as many a man doth of a
death’s-head or a _memento mori_. I never see thy face but I think upon
hell-fire, and Dives that lived in purple, for there he is in his
robes, burning, burning. If thou wert any way given to virtue, I would
swear by thy face. My oath should be, “By this fire, that’s God’s
angel.” But thou art altogether given over; and wert indeed, but for
the light in thy face, the son of utter darkness. When thou ran’st up
Gad’s Hill in the night to catch my horse, if I did not think thou
hadst been an _ignis fatuus_ or a ball of wildfire, there’s no purchase
in money. O, thou art a perpetual triumph, an everlasting
bonfire-light! Thou hast saved me a thousand marks in links and
torches, walking with thee in the night betwixt tavern and tavern: but
the sack that thou hast drunk me would have bought me lights as good
cheap at the dearest chandler’s in Europe. I have maintained that
salamander of yours with fire any time this two-and-thirty years, God
reward me for it!

BARDOLPH.
’Sblood, I would my face were in your belly!

FALSTAFF.
God-a-mercy! so should I be sure to be heartburnt.

Enter the Hostess.

How now, Dame Partlet the hen, have you enquired yet who picked my
pocket?

HOSTESS.
Why, Sir John, what do you think, Sir John, do you think I keep thieves
in my house? I have searched, I have enquired, so has my husband, man
by man, boy by boy, servant by servant. The tithe of a hair was never
lost in my house before.

FALSTAFF.
Ye lie, hostess. Bardolph was shaved and lost many a hair, and I’ll be
sworn my pocket was picked. Go to, you are a woman, go.

HOSTESS.
Who, I? No; I defy thee: God’s light, I was never called so in mine own
house before.

FALSTAFF.
Go to, I know you well enough.

HOSTESS.
No, Sir John, you do not know me, Sir John. I know you, Sir John, you
owe me money, Sir John, and now you pick a quarrel to beguile me of it.
I bought you a dozen of shirts to your back.

FALSTAFF.
Dowlas, filthy dowlas. I have given them away to bakers’ wives; and
they have made bolters of them.

HOSTESS.
Now, as I am a true woman, holland of eight shillings an ell. You owe
money here besides, Sir John, for your diet and by-drinkings, and money
lent you, four-and-twenty pound.

FALSTAFF.
He had his part of it, let him pay.

HOSTESS.
He? Alas, he is poor, he hath nothing.

FALSTAFF.
How? Poor? Look upon his face. What call you rich? Let them coin his
nose, let them coin his cheeks. I’ll not pay a denier. What, will you
make a younker of me? Shall I not take mine ease in mine inn but I
shall have my pocket picked? I have lost a seal-ring of my
grandfather’s worth forty mark.

HOSTESS.
O Jesu, I have heard the Prince tell him, I know not how oft, that that
ring was copper.

FALSTAFF.
How? The Prince is a Jack, a sneak-up. ’Sblood, an he were here, I
would cudgel him like a dog if he would say so.

Enter Prince Henry with Peto, marching. Falstaff meets him, playing on
his truncheon like a fife.

How now, lad? Is the wind in that door, i’faith? Must we all march?

