Sicilian Gentlemen
Officers of a Court of Judicature

HERMIONE, Queen to Leontes
PERDITA, daughter to Leontes and Hermione
PAULINA, wife to Antigonus
EMILIA, a lady attending on the Queen
MOPSA, shepherdess
DORCAS, shepherdess
Other Ladies, attending on the Queen

Lords, Ladies, and Attendants; Satyrs for a Dance; Shepherds,
Shepherdesses, Guards, &c.

TIME, as Chorus

Scene: Sometimes in Sicilia; sometimes in Bohemia.




ACT I

SCENE I. Sicilia. An Antechamber in Leontes’ Palace.

 Enter Camillo and Archidamus.

ARCHIDAMUS.
If you shall chance, Camillo, to visit Bohemia, on the like occasion
whereon my services are now on foot, you shall see, as I have said,
great difference betwixt our Bohemia and your Sicilia.

CAMILLO.
I think this coming summer the King of Sicilia means to pay Bohemia the
visitation which he justly owes him.

ARCHIDAMUS.
Wherein our entertainment shall shame us; we will be justified in our
loves. For indeed,—

CAMILLO.
Beseech you—

ARCHIDAMUS.
Verily, I speak it in the freedom of my knowledge. We cannot with such
magnificence—in so rare—I know not what to say. We will give you sleepy
drinks, that your senses, unintelligent of our insufficience, may,
though they cannot praise us, as little accuse us.

CAMILLO.
You pay a great deal too dear for what’s given freely.

ARCHIDAMUS.
Believe me, I speak as my understanding instructs me and as mine
honesty puts it to utterance.

CAMILLO.
Sicilia cannot show himself over-kind to Bohemia. They were trained
together in their childhoods, and there rooted betwixt them then such
an affection which cannot choose but branch now. Since their more
mature dignities and royal necessities made separation of their
society, their encounters, though not personal, have been royally
attorneyed with interchange of gifts, letters, loving embassies, that
they have seemed to be together, though absent; shook hands, as over a
vast; and embraced as it were from the ends of opposed winds. The
heavens continue their loves!

ARCHIDAMUS.
I think there is not in the world either malice or matter to alter it.
You have an unspeakable comfort of your young Prince Mamillius. It is a
gentleman of the greatest promise that ever came into my note.

CAMILLO.
I very well agree with you in the hopes of him. It is a gallant child;
one that indeed physics the subject, makes old hearts fresh. They that
went on crutches ere he was born desire yet their life to see him a
man.

ARCHIDAMUS.
Would they else be content to die?

CAMILLO.
Yes, if there were no other excuse why they should desire to live.

ARCHIDAMUS.
If the king had no son, they would desire to live on crutches till he
had one.

 [_Exeunt._]

SCENE II. The same. A Room of State in the Palace.

 Enter Leontes, Polixenes, Hermione, Mamillius, Camillo and Attendants.

POLIXENES.
Nine changes of the watery star hath been
The shepherd’s note since we have left our throne
Without a burden. Time as long again
Would be fill’d up, my brother, with our thanks;
And yet we should, for perpetuity,
