About his head he wears the winner’s oak,
And in it stuck the favour of his lady.
His age some six-and-thirty. In his hand
He bears a charging-staff embossed with silver.

THESEUS.
Are they all thus?

PIRITHOUS.
They are all the sons of honour.

THESEUS.
Now, as I have a soul, I long to see’em.
Lady, you shall see men fight now.

HIPPOLYTA.
I wish it,
But not the cause, my lord. They would show
Bravely about the titles of two kingdoms.
’Tis pity love should be so tyrannous.—
O, my soft-hearted sister, what think you?
Weep not till they weep blood. Wench, it must be.

THESEUS.
You have steeled ’em with your beauty.
Honoured friend,
To you I give the field; pray order it
Fitting the persons that must use it.

PIRITHOUS.
Yes, sir.

THESEUS.
Come, I’ll go visit ’em. I cannot stay,
Their fame has fired me so; till they appear.
Good friend, be royal.

PIRITHOUS.
There shall want no bravery.

[_Exeunt all but Emilia._]

EMILIA.
Poor wench, go weep, for whosoever wins,
Loses a noble cousin for thy sins.

[_Exit._]

SCENE III. A room in the prison

Enter Jailer, Wooer and Doctor.

DOCTOR.
Her distraction is more at some time of the moon, than at other some,
is it not?

JAILER.
She is continually in a harmless distemper, sleeps little, altogether
without appetite, save often drinking, dreaming of another world, and a
better; and what broken piece of matter soe’er she’s about, the name
Palamon lards it, that she farces every business withal, fits it to
every question.

Enter Jailer’s Daughter.

Look where she comes; you shall perceive her behaviour.

DAUGHTER.
I have forgot it quite. The burden on ’t was “Down-a, down-a,” and
penned by no worse man than Geraldo, Emilia’s schoolmaster. He’s as
fantastical, too, as ever he may go upon’s legs, for in the next world
will Dido see Palamon, and then will she be out of love with Æneas.

DOCTOR.
What stuff’s here? Poor soul!

JAILER.
Even thus all day long.

DAUGHTER.
Now for this charm that I told you of: you must bring a piece of silver
on the tip of your tongue, or no ferry. Then if it be your chance to
come where the blessed spirits are, there’s a sight now! We maids that
have our livers perished, cracked to pieces with love, we shall come
there, and do nothing all day long but pick flowers with Proserpine.
Then will I make Palamon a nosegay; then let him mark me—then.

DOCTOR.
How prettily she’s amiss! Note her a little further.

DAUGHTER.
Faith, I’ll tell you, sometime we go to barley-break, we of the
blessed. Alas, ’tis a sore life they have i’ th’ other place—such
burning, frying, boiling, hissing, howling, chattering, cursing—O, they
have shrewd measure; take heed! If one be mad, or hang or drown
themselves, thither they go; Jupiter bless us! And there shall we be
put in a cauldron of lead and usurers’ grease, amongst a whole million
of cutpurses, and there boil like a gammon of bacon that will never be
enough.

