Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence?”
And so he vanished. Then came wand’ring by
A shadow like an angel, with bright hair
Dabbled in blood; and he shrieked out aloud
“Clarence is come—false, fleeting, perjured Clarence,
That stabbed me in the field by Tewksbury!
Seize on him, Furies! Take him unto torment!”
With that, methoughts, a legion of foul fiends
Environed me, and howled in mine ears
Such hideous cries that with the very noise
I trembling waked, and for a season after
Could not believe but that I was in hell,
Such terrible impression made my dream.

KEEPER.
No marvel, lord, though it affrighted you;
I am afraid, methinks, to hear you tell it.

CLARENCE.
Ah, Keeper, Keeper, I have done these things,
That now give evidence against my soul,
For Edward’s sake, and see how he requites me.
O God, if my deep prayers cannot appease Thee,
But Thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds,
Yet execute Thy wrath in me alone;
O, spare my guiltless wife and my poor children!
Keeper, I prithee sit by me awhile.
My soul is heavy, and I fain would sleep.

KEEPER.
I will, my lord; God give your Grace good rest.

[_Clarence reposes himself on a chair._]

Enter Brakenbury the Lieutenant.

BRAKENBURY.
Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours,
Makes the night morning, and the noontide night.
Princes have but their titles for their glories,
An outward honour for an inward toil;
And, for unfelt imaginations,
They often feel a world of restless cares,
So that between their titles and low name,
There’s nothing differs but the outward fame.

Enter the two Murderers.

FIRST MURDERER.
Ho, who’s here?

BRAKENBURY.
What wouldst thou, fellow? And how cam’st thou hither?

SECOND MURDERER.
I would speak with Clarence, and I came hither on my legs.

BRAKENBURY.
What, so brief?

FIRST MURDERER.
’Tis better, sir, than to be tedious. Let him see our commission, and
talk no more.

[_Brakenbury reads the commission._]

BRAKENBURY.
I am in this commanded to deliver
The noble Duke of Clarence to your hands.
I will not reason what is meant hereby,
Because I will be guiltless of the meaning.
There lies the Duke asleep, and there the keys.
I’ll to the King and signify to him
That thus I have resigned to you my charge.

FIRST MURDERER.
You may, sir; ’tis a point of wisdom. Fare you well.

[_Exeunt Brakenbury and the Keeper._]

SECOND MURDERER.
What, shall I stab him as he sleeps?

FIRST MURDERER.
No. He’ll say ’twas done cowardly, when he wakes.

SECOND MURDERER.
Why, he shall never wake until the great Judgement Day.

FIRST MURDERER.
Why, then he’ll say we stabbed him sleeping.

SECOND MURDERER.
The urging of that word “judgement” hath bred a kind of remorse in me.

FIRST MURDERER.
What, art thou afraid?

SECOND MURDERER.
Not to kill him, having a warrant, but to be damned for killing him,
