SIR ANDREW.
And’t be any way, it must be with valour, for policy I hate; I had as
lief be a Brownist as a politician.

SIR TOBY.
Why, then, build me thy fortunes upon the basis of valour. Challenge me
the Count’s youth to fight with him. Hurt him in eleven places; my
niece shall take note of it, and assure thyself there is no love-broker
in the world can more prevail in man’s commendation with woman than
report of valour.

FABIAN.
There is no way but this, Sir Andrew.

SIR ANDREW.
Will either of you bear me a challenge to him?

SIR TOBY.
Go, write it in a martial hand, be curst and brief; it is no matter how
witty, so it be eloquent and full of invention. Taunt him with the
licence of ink. If thou ‘thou’st’ him some thrice, it shall not be
amiss, and as many lies as will lie in thy sheet of paper, although the
sheet were big enough for the bed of Ware in England, set ’em down. Go
about it. Let there be gall enough in thy ink, though thou write with a
goose-pen, no matter. About it.

SIR ANDREW.
Where shall I find you?

SIR TOBY.
We’ll call thee at the cubiculo. Go.

 [_Exit Sir Andrew._]

FABIAN.
This is a dear manikin to you, Sir Toby.

SIR TOBY.
I have been dear to him, lad, some two thousand strong, or so.

FABIAN.
We shall have a rare letter from him; but you’ll not deliver it.

SIR TOBY.
Never trust me then. And by all means stir on the youth to an answer. I
think oxen and wainropes cannot hale them together. For Andrew, if he
were opened and you find so much blood in his liver as will clog the
foot of a flea, I’ll eat the rest of th’ anatomy.

FABIAN.
And his opposite, the youth, bears in his visage no great presage of
cruelty.

 Enter Maria.

SIR TOBY.
Look where the youngest wren of nine comes.

MARIA.
If you desire the spleen, and will laugh yourselves into stitches,
follow me. Yond gull Malvolio is turned heathen, a very renegado; for
there is no Christian that means to be saved by believing rightly can
ever believe such impossible passages of grossness. He’s in yellow
stockings.

SIR TOBY.
And cross-gartered?

MARIA.
Most villainously; like a pedant that keeps a school i’ th’ church. I
have dogged him like his murderer. He does obey every point of the
letter that I dropped to betray him. He does smile his face into more
lines than is in the new map with the augmentation of the Indies. You
have not seen such a thing as ’tis. I  can hardly forbear hurling
things at him. I know my lady will strike him. If she do, he’ll smile
and take’t for a great favour.

SIR TOBY.
Come, bring us, bring us where he is.

 [_Exeunt._]

SCENE III. A street.

 Enter Sebastian and Antonio.

SEBASTIAN.
I would not by my will have troubled you,
But since you make your pleasure of your pains,
I will no further chide you.

ANTONIO.
I could not stay behind you: my desire,
More sharp than filed steel, did spur me forth;
And not all love to see you, though so much,
As might have drawn one to a longer voyage,
But jealousy what might befall your travel,
Being skilless in these parts; which to a stranger,
Unguided and unfriended, often prove
Rough and unhospitable. My willing love,
