
NERISSA.
You would be, sweet madam, if your miseries were in the same abundance
as your good fortunes are. And yet, for aught I see, they are as sick
that surfeit with too much as they that starve with nothing. It is no
mean happiness, therefore, to be seated in the mean. Superfluity come
sooner by white hairs, but competency lives longer.

PORTIA.
Good sentences, and well pronounc’d.

NERISSA.
They would be better if well followed.

PORTIA.
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chapels had been
churches, and poor men’s cottages princes’ palaces. It is a good divine
that follows his own instructions; I can easier teach twenty what were
good to be done than to be one of the twenty to follow mine own
teaching. The brain may devise laws for the blood, but a hot temper
leaps o’er a cold decree; such a hare is madness the youth, to skip
o’er the meshes of good counsel the cripple. But this reasoning is not
in the fashion to choose me a husband. O me, the word “choose”! I may
neither choose who I would nor refuse who I dislike, so is the will of
a living daughter curb’d by the will of a dead father. Is it not hard,
Nerissa, that I cannot choose one, nor refuse none?

NERISSA.
Your father was ever virtuous, and holy men at their death have good
inspirations. Therefore the lott’ry that he hath devised in these three
chests of gold, silver, and lead, whereof who chooses his meaning
chooses you, will no doubt never be chosen by any rightly but one who
you shall rightly love. But what warmth is there in your affection
towards any of these princely suitors that are already come?

PORTIA.
I pray thee over-name them, and as thou namest them, I will describe
them, and according to my description level at my affection.

NERISSA.
First, there is the Neapolitan prince.

PORTIA.
Ay, that’s a colt indeed, for he doth nothing but talk of his horse,
and he makes it a great appropriation to his own good parts that he can
shoe him himself. I am much afeard my lady his mother play’d false with
a smith.

NERISSA.
Then is there the County Palatine.

PORTIA.
He doth nothing but frown, as who should say “And you will not have me,
choose.” He hears merry tales and smiles not. I fear he will prove the
weeping philosopher when he grows old, being so full of unmannerly
sadness in his youth. I had rather be married to a death’s-head with a
bone in his mouth than to either of these. God defend me from these
two!

NERISSA.
How say you by the French lord, Monsieur Le Bon?

PORTIA.
God made him, and therefore let him pass for a man. In truth, I know it
is a sin to be a mocker, but he! why, he hath a horse better than the
Neapolitan’s, a better bad habit of frowning than the Count Palatine.
He is every man in no man. If a throstle sing, he falls straight
a-cap’ring. He will fence with his own shadow. If I should marry him, I
should marry twenty husbands. If he would despise me, I would forgive
him, for if he love me to madness, I shall never requite him.

NERISSA.
What say you then to Falconbridge, the young baron of England?

PORTIA.
You know I say nothing to him, for he understands not me, nor I him: he
hath neither Latin, French, nor Italian, and you will come into the
court and swear that I have a poor pennyworth in the English. He is a
proper man’s picture; but alas, who can converse with a dumb-show? How
oddly he is suited! I think he bought his doublet in Italy, his round
hose in France, his bonnet in Germany, and his behaviour everywhere.

NERISSA.
What think you of the Scottish lord, his neighbour?

PORTIA.
That he hath a neighbourly charity in him, for he borrowed a box of the
ear of the Englishman, and swore he would pay him again when he was
able. I think the Frenchman became his surety, and seal’d under for
another.

NERISSA.
How like you the young German, the Duke of Saxony’s nephew?

PORTIA.
Very vilely in the morning when he is sober, and most vilely in the
afternoon when he is drunk: when he is best, he is a little worse than
a man, and when he is worst, he is little better than a beast. And the
worst fall that ever fell, I hope I shall make shift to go without him.

