
ISABELLA.
The image of it gives me content already, and I trust it will grow to a
most prosperous perfection.

DUKE.
It lies much in your holding up. Haste you speedily to Angelo; if for
this night he entreat you to his bed, give him promise of satisfaction.
I will presently to Saint Luke’s; there at the moated grange resides
this dejected Mariana. At that place call upon me; and dispatch with
Angelo, that it may be quickly.

ISABELLA.
I thank you for this comfort. Fare you well, good father.

[_Exit Isabella._]

SCENE II. The street before the prison.

Enter Elbow, Pompey and Officers.

ELBOW.
Nay, if there be no remedy for it, but that you will needs buy and sell
men and women like beasts, we shall have all the world drink brown and
white bastard.

DUKE.
O heavens, what stuff is here?

POMPEY.
’Twas never merry world since, of two usuries, the merriest was put
down, and the worser allowed by order of law a furred gown to keep him
warm; and furred with fox on lambskins too, to signify that craft,
being richer than innocency, stands for the facing.

ELBOW.
Come your way, sir.—Bless you, good father friar.

DUKE.
And you, good brother father. What offence hath this man made you, sir?

ELBOW.
Marry, sir, he hath offended the law; and, sir, we take him to be a
thief too, sir; for we have found upon him, sir, a strange picklock,
which we have sent to the deputy.

DUKE.
Fie, sirrah, a bawd, a wicked bawd;
The evil that thou causest to be done,
That is thy means to live. Do thou but think
What ’tis to cram a maw or clothe a back
From such a filthy vice. Say to thyself,
From their abominable and beastly touches
I drink, I eat, array myself, and live.
Canst thou believe thy living is a life,
So stinkingly depending? Go mend, go mend.

POMPEY.
Indeed, it does stink in some sort, sir. But yet, sir, I would prove—

DUKE.
Nay, if the devil have given thee proofs for sin,
Thou wilt prove his. Take him to prison, officer.
Correction and instruction must both work
Ere this rude beast will profit.

ELBOW.
He must before the deputy, sir; he has given him warning. The deputy
cannot abide a whoremaster. If he be a whoremonger and comes before
him, he were as good go a mile on his errand.

DUKE.
That we were all, as some would seem to be,
Free from our faults, as faults from seeming, free!

ELBOW.
His neck will come to your waist—a cord, sir.

Enter Lucio.

POMPEY.
I spy comfort, I cry bail! Here’s a gentleman, and a friend of mine.

LUCIO.
How now, noble Pompey? What, at the wheels of Caesar? Art thou led in
triumph? What, is there none of Pygmalion’s images, newly made woman,
to be had now, for putting the hand in the pocket and extracting it
clutched? What reply, ha? What say’st thou to this tune, matter, and
method? Is’t not drowned i’ th’ last rain, ha? What say’st thou, trot?
Is the world as it was, man? Which is the way? Is it sad and few words?
Or how? The trick of it?

DUKE.
Still thus, and thus; still worse!

LUCIO.
How doth my dear morsel, thy mistress? Procures she still, ha?

POMPEY.
Troth, sir, she hath eaten up all her beef, and she is herself in the
