POLIXENES.
As thou lov’st me, Camillo, wipe not out the rest of thy services by
leaving me now: the need I have of thee, thine own goodness hath made;
better not to have had thee than thus to want thee. Thou, having made
me businesses which none without thee can sufficiently manage, must
either stay to execute them thyself, or take away with thee the very
services thou hast done, which if I have not enough considered (as too
much I cannot) to be more thankful to thee shall be my study; and my
profit therein the heaping friendships. Of that fatal country Sicilia,
prithee speak no more; whose very naming punishes me with the
remembrance of that penitent, as thou call’st him, and reconciled king,
my brother; whose loss of his most precious queen and children are even
now to be afresh lamented. Say to me, when sawest thou the Prince
Florizel, my son? Kings are no less unhappy, their issue not being
gracious, than they are in losing them when they have approved their
virtues.

CAMILLO.
Sir, it is three days since I saw the prince. What his happier affairs
may be, are to me unknown, but I have missingly noted he is of late
much retired from court, and is less frequent to his princely exercises
than formerly he hath appeared.

POLIXENES.
I have considered so much, Camillo, and with some care; so far that I
have eyes under my service which look upon his removedness; from whom I
have this intelligence, that he is seldom from the house of a most
homely shepherd, a man, they say, that from very nothing, and beyond
the imagination of his neighbours, is grown into an unspeakable estate.

CAMILLO.
I have heard, sir, of such a man, who hath a daughter of most rare
note: the report of her is extended more than can be thought to begin
from such a cottage.

POLIXENES.
That’s likewise part of my intelligence: but, I fear, the angle that
plucks our son thither. Thou shalt accompany us to the place, where we
will, not appearing what we are, have some question with the shepherd;
from whose simplicity I think it not uneasy to get the cause of my
son’s resort thither. Prithee, be my present partner in this business,
and lay aside the thoughts of Sicilia.

CAMILLO.
I willingly obey your command.

POLIXENES.
My best Camillo! We must disguise ourselves.

 [_Exeunt._]

SCENE III. The same. A Road near the Shepherd’s cottage.

 Enter Autolycus, singing.

AUTOLYCUS.
_When daffodils begin to peer,
    With, hey! the doxy over the dale,
Why, then comes in the sweet o’ the year,
    For the red blood reigns in the winter’s pale._

_The white sheet bleaching on the hedge,
    With, hey! the sweet birds, O, how they sing!
Doth set my pugging tooth on edge;
    For a quart of ale is a dish for a king._

_The lark, that tirra-lirra chants,
    With, hey! with, hey! the thrush and the jay,
Are summer songs for me and my aunts,
    While we lie tumbling in the hay._

I have served Prince Florizel, and in my time wore three-pile, but now
I am out of service.

_But shall I go mourn for that, my dear?
    The pale moon shines by night:
And when I wander here and there,
    I then do most go right._

_If tinkers may have leave to live,
    And bear the sow-skin budget,
Then my account I well may give
    And in the stocks avouch it._

My traffic is sheets; when the kite builds, look to lesser linen. My
father named me Autolycus; who being, I as am, littered under Mercury,
was likewise a snapper-up of unconsidered trifles. With die and drab I
purchased this caparison, and my revenue is the silly cheat. Gallows
and knock are too powerful on the highway. Beating and hanging are
terrors to me. For the life to come, I sleep out the thought of it. A
prize! a prize!

 Enter Clown.

CLOWN.
Let me see: every ’leven wether tods; every tod yields pound and odd
shilling; fifteen hundred shorn, what comes the wool to?

AUTOLYCUS.
[_Aside._] If the springe hold, the cock’s mine.
