Left I the court to see this quarrel tried.

KING HENRY.
I’ God’s name, see the lists and all things fit.
Here let them end it, and God defend the right!

YORK.
I never saw a fellow worse bested,
Or more afraid to fight, than is the appellant,
The servant of his armourer, my lords.

Enter at one door Horner the armourer, and his Neighbours, drinking to
him so much that he is drunk; and he enters with a drum before him and
his staff with a sandbag fastened to it; and at the other door Peter,
his man, with a drum and sandbag, and Prentices  drinking to him.

1 NEIGHBOUR.
Here, neighbour Horner, I drink to you in a cup of sack; and fear not,
neighbour, you shall do well enough.

2 NEIGHBOUR.
And here, neighbour, here’s a cup of charneco.

3 NEIGHBOUR.
And here’s a pot of good double beer, neighbour. Drink, and fear not
your man.

HORNER.
Let it come, i’ faith, and I’ll pledge you all; and a fig for Peter!

1 PRENTICE.
Here, Peter, I drink to thee, and be not afraid.

2 PRENTICE.
Be merry, Peter, and fear not thy master. Fight for credit of the
prentices.

PETER.
I thank you all. Drink, and pray for me, I pray you, for I think I have
taken my last draught in this world. Here, Robin, an if I die, I give
thee my apron; and, Will, thou shalt have my hammer; and here, Tom,
take all the money that I have. O Lord bless me! I pray God, for I am
never able to deal with my master, he hath learnt so much fence
already.

SALISBURY.
Come, leave your drinking and fall to blows.
Sirrah, what’s thy name?

PETER.
Peter, forsooth.

SALISBURY.
Peter? What more?

PETER.
Thump.

SALISBURY.
Thump! Then see thou thump thy master well.

HORNER.
Masters, I am come hither, as it were, upon my man’s instigation, to
prove him a knave and myself an honest man; and touching the Duke of
York, I will take my death I never meant him any ill, nor the King, nor
the Queen; and therefore, Peter, have at thee with a downright blow!

YORK.
Dispatch! This knave’s tongue begins to double.
Sound, trumpets. Alarum to the combatants!

[_They fight, and Peter strikes him down._]

HORNER.
Hold, Peter, hold! I confess, I confess treason.

[_Dies._]

YORK.
Take away his weapon.—Fellow, thank God and the good wine in thy
master’s way.

PETER.
O God, have I overcome mine enemies in this presence? O Peter, thou
hast prevailed in right!

KING HENRY.
Go, take hence that traitor from our sight,
For by his death we do perceive his guilt.
And God in justice hath revealed to us
The truth and innocence of this poor fellow,
Which he had thought to have murdered wrongfully.
Come, fellow, follow us for thy reward.

[_Sound a flourish. Exeunt._]

SCENE IV. A Street

Enter Gloucester and his Servingmen in mourning cloaks.

