to Angelo.

PROVOST.
Angelo hath seen them both, and will discover the favour.

DUKE.
O, death’s a great disguiser, and you may add to it. Shave the head and
tie the beard, and say it was the desire of the penitent to be so bared
before his death. You know the course is common. If anything fall to
you upon this, more than thanks and good fortune, by the saint whom I
profess, I will plead against it with my life.

PROVOST.
Pardon me, good father; it is against my oath.

DUKE.
Were you sworn to the Duke, or to the Deputy?

PROVOST.
To him and to his substitutes.

DUKE.
You will think you have made no offence if the Duke avouch the justice
of your dealing?

PROVOST.
But what likelihood is in that?

DUKE.
Not a resemblance, but a certainty. Yet since I see you fearful, that
neither my coat, integrity, nor persuasion, can with ease attempt you,
I will go further than I meant, to pluck all fears out of you. Look
you, sir, here is the hand and seal of the Duke. You know the
character, I doubt not, and the signet is not strange to you.

PROVOST.
I know them both.

DUKE.
The contents of this is the return of the Duke; you shall anon
over-read it at your pleasure, where you shall find within these two
days he will be here. This is a thing that Angelo knows not; for he
this very day receives letters of strange tenour, perchance of the
Duke’s death, perchance entering into some monastery; but, by chance,
nothing of what is writ. Look, th’ unfolding star calls up the
shepherd. Put not yourself into amazement how these things should be.
All difficulties are but easy when they are known. Call your
executioner, and off with Barnardine’s head. I will give him a present
shrift, and advise him for a better place. Yet you are amazed; but this
shall absolutely resolve you. Come away; it is almost clear dawn.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE III. Another room in the same.

Enter Pompey.

POMPEY.
I am as well acquainted here as I was in our house of profession. One
would think it were Mistress Overdone’s own house, for here be many of
her old customers. First, here’s young Master Rash; he’s in for a
commodity of brown paper and old ginger, nine score and seventeen
pounds; of which he made five marks ready money. Marry, then ginger was
not much in request, for the old women were all dead. Then is there
here one Master Caper, at the suit of Master Three-pile the mercer, for
some four suits of peach-coloured satin, which now peaches him a
beggar. Then have we here young Dizie, and young Master Deep-vow, and
Master Copperspur, and Master Starve-lackey, the rapier and dagger man,
and young Drop-heir that killed lusty Pudding, and Master Forthright
the tilter, and brave Master Shoe-tie the great traveller, and wild
Half-can that stabbed Pots, and I think forty more, all great doers in
our trade, and are now “for the Lord’s sake.”

Enter Abhorson.

ABHORSON.
Sirrah, bring Barnardine hither.

POMPEY.
Master Barnardine! You must rise and be hanged, Master Barnardine.

ABHORSON.
What ho, Barnardine!

BARNARDINE.
[_Within_.] A pox o’ your throats! Who makes that noise there? What are
you?

POMPEY.
Your friends, sir; the hangman. You must be so good, sir, to rise and
be put to death.

BARNARDINE.
[_Within_.] Away, you rogue, away; I am sleepy.

ABHORSON.
Tell him he must awake, and that quickly too.

POMPEY.
Pray, Master Barnardine, awake till you are executed, and sleep
