
OLIVIA.
I do I know not what, and fear to find
Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind.
Fate, show thy force, ourselves we do not owe.
What is decreed must be; and be this so!

 [_Exit._]




ACT II.

SCENE I. The sea-coast.


 Enter Antonio and Sebastian.

ANTONIO.
Will you stay no longer? Nor will you not that I go with you?

SEBASTIAN.
By your patience, no; my stars shine darkly over me; the malignancy of
my fate might perhaps distemper yours; therefore I shall crave of you
your leave that I may bear my evils alone. It were a bad recompense for
your love, to lay any of them on you.

ANTONIO.
Let me know of you whither you are bound.

SEBASTIAN.
No, sooth, sir; my determinate voyage is mere extravagancy. But I
perceive in you so excellent a touch of modesty, that you will not
extort from me what I am willing to keep in. Therefore it charges me in
manners the rather to express myself. You must know of me then,
Antonio, my name is Sebastian, which I called Roderigo; my father was
that Sebastian of Messaline whom I know you have heard of. He left
behind him myself and a sister, both born in an hour. If the heavens
had been pleased, would we had so ended! But you, sir, altered that,
for some hour before you took me from the breach of the sea was my
sister drowned.

ANTONIO.
Alas the day!

SEBASTIAN.
A lady, sir, though it was said she much resembled me, was yet of many
accounted beautiful. But though I could not with such estimable wonder
overfar believe that, yet thus far I will boldly publish her, she bore
a mind that envy could not but call fair. She is drowned already, sir,
with salt water, though I seem to drown her remembrance again with
more.

ANTONIO.
Pardon me, sir, your bad entertainment.

SEBASTIAN.
O good Antonio, forgive me your trouble.

ANTONIO.
If you will not murder me for my love, let me be your servant.

SEBASTIAN.
If you will not undo what you have done, that is, kill him whom you
have recovered, desire it not. Fare ye well at once; my bosom is full
of kindness, and I am yet so near the manners of my mother, that upon
the least occasion more, mine eyes will tell tales of me. I am bound to
the Count Orsino’s court: farewell.

 [_Exit._]

ANTONIO.
The gentleness of all the gods go with thee!
I have many enemies in Orsino’s court,
Else would I very shortly see thee there:
But come what may, I do adore thee so,
That danger shall seem sport, and I will go.

 [_Exit._]

SCENE II. A street.

 Enter Viola; Malvolio at several doors.

MALVOLIO.
Were you not even now with the Countess Olivia?

VIOLA.
Even now, sir; on a moderate pace I have since arrived but hither.

MALVOLIO.
She returns this ring to you, sir; you might have saved me my pains, to
have taken it away yourself. She adds, moreover, that you should put
your lord into a desperate assurance she will none of him. And one
thing more, that you be never so hardy to come again in his affairs,
unless it be to report your lord’s taking of this. Receive it so.

VIOLA.
She took the ring of me: I’ll none of it.
