BARDOLPH.
Sir, a word with you. I have three pound to free Mouldy and Bullcalf.

FALSTAFF.
Go to, well.

SHALLOW.
Come, Sir John, which four will you have?

FALSTAFF.
Do you choose for me.

SHALLOW.
Marry, then, Mouldy, Bullcalf, Feeble, and Shadow.

FALSTAFF.
Mouldy and Bullcalf: for you, Mouldy, stay at home till you are past
service; and for your part, Bullcalf, grow till you come unto it. I
will none of you.

SHALLOW.
Sir John, Sir John, do not yourself wrong. They are your likeliest men,
and I would have you served with the best.

FALSTAFF.
Will you tell me, Master Shallow, how to choose a man? Care I for the
limb, the thews, the stature, bulk, and big assemblance of a man? Give
me the spirit, Master Shallow. Here’s Wart. You see what a ragged
appearance it is. He shall charge you and discharge you with the motion
of a pewterer’s hammer, come off and on swifter than he that gibbets on
the brewer’s bucket. And this same half-faced fellow, Shadow; give me
this man. He presents no mark to the enemy. The foeman may with as
great aim level at the edge of a penknife. And for a retreat, how
swiftly will this Feeble, the woman’s tailor, run off! O, give me the
spare men, and spare me the great ones. Put me a caliver into Wart’s
hand, Bardolph.

BARDOLPH.
Hold, Wart. Traverse. Thas, thas, thas.

FALSTAFF.
Come, manage me your caliver. So, very well, go to, very good,
exceeding good. O, give me always a little, lean, old, chopt, bald
shot. Well said, i’ faith, Wart. Th’art a good scab. Hold, there’s a
tester for thee.

SHALLOW.
He is not his craft’s master, he doth not do it right. I remember at
Mile-End Green, when I lay at Clement’s Inn—I was then Sir Dagonet in
Arthur’s show—there was a little quiver fellow, and he would manage you
his piece thus. And he would about and about, and come you in and come
you in. “Rah, tah, tah,” would he say. “Bounce” would he say; and away
again would he go, and again would he come. I shall ne’er see such a
fellow.

FALSTAFF.
These fellows will do well. Master Shallow. God keep you, Master
Silence: I will not use many words with you. Fare you well, gentlemen
both. I thank you. I must a dozen mile tonight. Bardolph, give the
soldiers coats.

SHALLOW.
Sir John, the Lord bless you! God prosper your affairs! God send us
peace! At your return, visit our house, let our old acquaintance be
renewed. Peradventure I will with ye to the court.

FALSTAFF.
Fore God, I would you would, Master Shallow.

SHALLOW.
Go to, I have spoke at a word. God keep you.

FALSTAFF.
Fare you well, gentle gentlemen. [_Exeunt Justices_.] On, Bardolph,
lead the men away. [_Exeunt Bardolph, recruits, &c._] As I return, I
will fetch off these justices. I do see the bottom of Justice Shallow.
Lord, Lord, how subject we old men are to this vice of lying! This same
starved justice hath done nothing but prate to me of the wildness of
his youth, and the feats he hath done about Turnbull Street, and every
third word a lie, duer paid to the hearer than the Turk’s tribute. I do
remember him at Clement’s Inn, like a man made after supper of a
cheese-paring. When he was naked, he was, for all the world, like a
forked radish, with a head fantastically carved upon it with a knife.
He was so forlorn, that his dimensions to any thick sight were
invincible. He was the very genius of famine, yet lecherous as a
monkey, and the whores called him mandrake. He came ever in the
rearward of the fashion, and sung those tunes to the overscutched
huswives that he heard the carmen whistle, and sware they were his
fancies or his good-nights. And now is this Vice’s dagger become a
squire, and talks as familiarly of John a Gaunt as if he had been sworn
brother to him, and I’ll be sworn he ne’er saw him but once in the
tilt-yard, and then he burst his head for crowding among the marshal’s
men. I saw it and told John a Gaunt he beat his own name, for you might
have thrust him and all his apparel into an eel-skin; the case of a
treble hautboy was a mansion for him, a court. And now has he land and
beefs. Well, I’ll be acquainted with him if I return, and ’t shall go
hard but I’ll make him a philosopher’s two stones to me. If the young
dace be a bait for the old pike, I see no reason in the law of nature
but I may snap at him. Let time shape, and there an end.

