Most true, if ever truth were pregnant by circumstance. That which you
hear you’ll swear you see, there is such unity in the proofs. The
mantle of Queen Hermione’s, her jewel about the neck of it, the letters
of Antigonus found with it, which they know to be his character; the
majesty of the creature in resemblance of the mother, the affection of
nobleness which nature shows above her breeding, and many other
evidences proclaim her with all certainty to be the king’s daughter.
Did you see the meeting of the two kings?

SECOND GENTLEMAN.
No.

THIRD GENTLEMAN.
Then you have lost a sight which was to be seen, cannot be spoken of.
There might you have beheld one joy crown another, so and in such
manner that it seemed sorrow wept to take leave of them, for their joy
waded in tears. There was casting up of eyes, holding up of hands, with
countenance of such distraction that they were to be known by garment,
not by favour. Our king, being ready to leap out of himself for joy of
his found daughter, as if that joy were now become a loss, cries “O,
thy mother, thy mother!” then asks Bohemia forgiveness; then embraces
his son-in-law; then again worries he his daughter with clipping her;
now he thanks the old shepherd, which stands by like a weather-bitten
conduit of many kings’ reigns. I never heard of such another encounter,
which lames report to follow it, and undoes description to do it.

SECOND GENTLEMAN.
What, pray you, became of Antigonus, that carried hence the child?

THIRD GENTLEMAN.
Like an old tale still, which will have matter to rehearse, though
credit be asleep and not an ear open. He was torn to pieces with a
bear: this avouches the shepherd’s son, who has not only his innocence,
which seems much, to justify him, but a handkerchief and rings of his
that Paulina knows.

FIRST GENTLEMAN.
What became of his bark and his followers?

THIRD GENTLEMAN.
Wrecked the same instant of their master’s death, and in the view of
the shepherd: so that all the instruments which aided to expose the
child were even then lost when it was found. But O, the noble combat
that ’twixt joy and sorrow was fought in Paulina! She had one eye
declined for the loss of her husband, another elevated that the oracle
was fulfilled. She lifted the princess from the earth, and so locks her
in embracing, as if she would pin her to her heart, that she might no
more be in danger of losing.

FIRST GENTLEMAN.
The dignity of this act was worth the audience of kings and princes;
for by such was it acted.

THIRD GENTLEMAN.
One of the prettiest touches of all, and that which angled for mine
eyes (caught the water, though not the fish) was, when at the relation
of the queen’s death (with the manner how she came to it bravely
confessed and lamented by the king) how attentiveness wounded his
daughter; till, from one sign of dolour to another, she did, with an
“Alas,” I would fain say, bleed tears, for I am sure my heart wept
blood. Who was most marble there changed colour; some swooned, all
sorrowed: if all the world could have seen it, the woe had been
universal.

FIRST GENTLEMAN.
Are they returned to the court?

THIRD GENTLEMAN.
No: the princess hearing of her mother’s statue, which is in the
keeping of Paulina,—a piece many years in doing and now newly performed
by that rare Italian master, Julio Romano, who, had he himself
eternity, and could put breath into his work, would beguile Nature of
her custom, so perfectly he is her ape: he so near to Hermione hath
done Hermione that they say one would speak to her and stand in hope of
answer. Thither with all greediness of affection are they gone, and
there they intend to sup.

SECOND GENTLEMAN.
I thought she had some great matter there in hand; for she hath
privately twice or thrice a day, ever since the death of Hermione,
visited that removed house. Shall we thither, and with our company
piece the rejoicing?

FIRST GENTLEMAN.
Who would be thence that has the benefit of access? Every wink of an
eye some new grace will be born. Our absence makes us unthrifty to our
knowledge. Let’s along.

 [_Exeunt Gentlemen._]

AUTOLYCUS.
Now, had I not the dash of my former life in me, would preferment drop
on my head. I brought the old man and his son aboard the prince; told
him I heard them talk of a fardel and I know not what. But he at that
time over-fond of the shepherd’s daughter (so he then took her to be),
who began to be much sea-sick, and himself little better, extremity of
weather continuing, this mystery remained undiscover’d. But ’tis all
one to me; for had I been the finder-out of this secret, it would not
have relish’d among my other discredits.

