
PORTER’S MAN.
You great fellow,
Stand close up, or I’ll make your head ache.

PORTER.
You i’ th’ camlet, get up o’ th’ rail!
I’ll peck you o’er the pales else.

[_Exeunt._]

SCENE IV. The palace.

Enter Trumpets, sounding; then two Aldermen, Lord Mayor, Garter,
Cranmer, Duke of Norfolk with his marshal’s staff, Duke of Suffolk, two
Noblemen bearing great standing bowls for the christening gifts; then
four Noblemen bearing a canopy, under which the Duchess of Norfolk,
godmother, bearing the child richly habited in a mantle, etc., train
borne by a Lady; then follows the Marchioness Dorset, the other
godmother, and Ladies. The troop pass once about the stage, and Garter
speaks.

GARTER.
Heaven, from thy endless goodness, send prosperous life, long and ever
happy, to the high and mighty Princess of England, Elizabeth.

Flourish. Enter King and Guard.

CRANMER.
[_Kneeling_.] And to your royal Grace and the good Queen,
My noble partners and myself thus pray
All comfort, joy, in this most gracious lady
Heaven ever laid up to make parents happy
May hourly fall upon ye!

KING.
Thank you, good lord Archbishop.
What is her name?

CRANMER.
Elizabeth.

KING.
Stand up, lord.

[_The King kisses the child._]

With this kiss take my blessing: God protect thee,
Into whose hand I give thy life.

CRANMER.
Amen.

KING.
My noble gossips, you’ve have been too prodigal.
I thank ye heartily; so shall this lady,
When she has so much English.

CRANMER.
Let me speak, sir,
For heaven now bids me; and the words I utter
Let none think flattery, for they’ll find ’em truth.
This royal infant—heaven still move about her!—
Though in her cradle, yet now promises
Upon this land a thousand thousand blessings,
Which time shall bring to ripeness. She shall be—
But few now living can behold that goodness—
A pattern to all princes living with her
And all that shall succeed. Saba was never
More covetous of wisdom and fair virtue
Than this pure soul shall be. All princely graces
That mould up such a mighty piece as this is,
With all the virtues that attend the good,
Shall still be doubled on her. Truth shall nurse her;
Holy and heavenly thoughts still counsel her.
She shall be loved and feared. Her own shall bless her;
Her foes shake like a field of beaten corn,
And hang their heads with sorrow. Good grows with her.
In her days every man shall eat in safety
Under his own vine what he plants, and sing
The merry songs of peace to all his neighbours.
God shall be truly known, and those about her
From her shall read the perfect ways of honour
And by those claim their greatness, not by blood.
Nor shall this peace sleep with her; but as when
The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix,
Her ashes new create another heir
As great in admiration as herself,
So shall she leave her blessedness to one,
When heaven shall call her from this cloud of darkness,
Who from the sacred ashes of her honour
Shall star-like rise as great in fame as she was
And so stand fixed. Peace, plenty, love, truth, terror,
That were the servants to this chosen infant,
Shall then be his, and like a vine grow to him.
Wherever the bright sun of heaven shall shine,
His honour and the greatness of his name
Shall be, and make new nations. He shall flourish,
And, like a mountain cedar, reach his branches
To all the plains about him. Our children’s children
