Trumpets, sennet, and cornets. Enter two Vergers, with short silver
wands; next them, two Scribes, in the habit of doctors; after them, the
Archbishop of Canterbury alone; after him, the Bishops of Lincoln, Ely,
Rochester, and Saint Asaph; next them, with some small distance,
follows a Gentleman bearing the purse with the great seal, and a
cardinal’s hat; then two Priests, bearing each a silver cross; then a
Gentleman Usher bare-headed, accompanied with a Sergeant-at-arms
bearing a silver mace; then two Gentlemen, bearing two great silver
pillars; after them, side by side, the two Cardinals; two Noblemen with
the sword and mace. The King takes place under the cloth of state. The
two Cardinals sit under him as judges. The Queen takes place some
distance from the King. The Bishops place themselves on each side the
court, in manner of consistory; below them the Scribes. The Lords sit
next the Bishops. The rest of the Attendants stand in convenient order
about the stage.

WOLSEY.
Whilst our commission from Rome is read,
Let silence be commanded.

KING.
What’s the need?
It hath already publicly been read,
And on all sides th’ authority allowed;
You may then spare that time.

WOLSEY.
Be’t so. Proceed.

SCRIBE.
Say, “Henry King of England, come into the court.”

CRIER.
Henry King of England, come into the court.

KING.
Here.

SCRIBE.
Say, “Katherine Queen of England, come into the court.”

CRIER.
Katherine Queen of England, come into the court.

[_The Queen makes no answer, rises out of her chair, goes about the
court, comes to the King, and kneels at his feet; then speaks._]

QUEEN KATHERINE.
Sir, I desire you do me right and justice,
And to bestow your pity on me; for
I am a most poor woman and a stranger,
Born out of your dominions, having here
No judge indifferent nor no more assurance
Of equal friendship and proceeding. Alas, sir,
In what have I offended you? What cause
Hath my behaviour given to your displeasure
That thus you should proceed to put me off
And take your good grace from me? Heaven witness
I have been to you a true and humble wife,
At all times to your will conformable,
Ever in fear to kindle your dislike,
Yea, subject to your countenance, glad or sorry
As I saw it inclined. When was the hour
I ever contradicted your desire,
Or made it not mine too? Or which of your friends
Have I not strove to love, although I knew
He were mine enemy? What friend of mine
That had to him derived your anger did I
Continue in my liking? Nay, gave notice
He was from thence discharged? Sir, call to mind
That I have been your wife in this obedience
Upward of twenty years, and have been blessed
With many children by you. If, in the course
And process of this time, you can report,
And prove it too, against mine honour aught,
My bond to wedlock, or my love and duty
Against your sacred person, in God’s name,
Turn me away and let the foul’st contempt
Shut door upon me, and so give me up
To the sharp’st kind of justice. Please you, sir,
The King your father was reputed for
A prince most prudent, of an excellent
And unmatched wit and judgement. Ferdinand,
My father, King of Spain, was reckoned one
The wisest prince that there had reigned by many
A year before. It is not to be questioned
That they had gathered a wise council to them
Of every realm, that did debate this business,
Who deemed our marriage lawful. Wherefore I humbly
Beseech you, sir, to spare me till I may
Be by my friends in Spain advised, whose counsel
I will implore. If not, i’ th’ name of God,
Your pleasure be fulfilled.

WOLSEY.
You have here, lady,
And of your choice, these reverend fathers, men
Of singular integrity and learning,
Yea, the elect o’ th’ land, who are assembled
To plead your cause. It shall be therefore bootless
