Would I had been by to have helped the old man!

CLOWN.
I would you had been by the ship side, to have helped her: there your
charity would have lacked footing.

SHEPHERD.
Heavy matters, heavy matters! But look thee here, boy. Now bless
thyself: thou met’st with things dying, I with things new-born. Here’s
a sight for thee. Look thee, a bearing-cloth for a squire’s child! Look
thee here; take up, take up, boy; open’t. So, let’s see. It was told me
I should be rich by the fairies. This is some changeling: open’t.
What’s within, boy?

CLOWN.
You’re a made old man. If the sins of your youth are forgiven you,
you’re well to live. Gold! all gold!

SHEPHERD.
This is fairy gold, boy, and ’twill prove so. Up with it, keep it
close: home, home, the next way. We are lucky, boy, and to be so still
requires nothing but secrecy. Let my sheep go: come, good boy, the next
way home.

CLOWN.
Go you the next way with your findings. I’ll go see if the bear be gone
from the gentleman, and how much he hath eaten. They are never curst
but when they are hungry: if there be any of him left, I’ll bury it.

SHEPHERD.
That’s a good deed. If thou mayest discern by that which is left of him
what he is, fetch me to th’ sight of him.

CLOWN.
Marry, will I; and you shall help to put him i’ th’ ground.

SHEPHERD.
’Tis a lucky day, boy, and we’ll do good deeds on ’t.

 [_Exeunt._]



ACT IV

SCENE I.

 Enter Time, the Chorus.

TIME.
I that please some, try all: both joy and terror
Of good and bad, that makes and unfolds error,
Now take upon me, in the name of Time,
To use my wings. Impute it not a crime
To me or my swift passage, that I slide
O’er sixteen years, and leave the growth untried
Of that wide gap, since it is in my power
To o’erthrow law, and in one self-born hour
To plant and o’erwhelm custom. Let me pass
The same I am, ere ancient’st order was
Or what is now received. I witness to
The times that brought them in; so shall I do
To th’ freshest things now reigning, and make stale
The glistering of this present, as my tale
Now seems to it. Your patience this allowing,
I turn my glass, and give my scene such growing
As you had slept between. Leontes leaving
Th’ effects of his fond jealousies, so grieving
That he shuts up himself, imagine me,
Gentle spectators, that I now may be
In fair Bohemia, and remember well,
I mentioned a son o’ th’ king’s, which Florizel
I now name to you; and with speed so pace
To speak of Perdita, now grown in grace
Equal with wondering. What of her ensues
I list not prophesy; but let Time’s news
Be known when ’tis brought forth. A shepherd’s daughter,
And what to her adheres, which follows after,
Is th’ argument of Time. Of this allow,
If ever you have spent time worse ere now;
If never, yet that Time himself doth say
He wishes earnestly you never may.

 [_Exit._]

SCENE II. Bohemia. A Room in the palace of Polixenes.

 Enter Polixenes and Camillo.

POLIXENES.
I pray thee, good Camillo, be no more importunate: ’tis a sickness
denying thee anything; a death to grant this.

CAMILLO.
It is fifteen years since I saw my country. Though I have for the most
part been aired abroad, I desire to lay my bones there. Besides, the
penitent king, my master, hath sent for me; to whose feeling sorrows I
might be some allay, or I o’erween to think so,—which is another spur
to my departure.

