For many so arrive at second masters
Upon their first lord’s neck. But tell me true—
For I must ever doubt, though ne’er so sure—
Is not thy kindness subtle, covetous,
A usuring kindness and as rich men deal gifts,
Expecting in return twenty for one?

FLAVIUS.
No, my most worthy master, in whose breast
Doubt and suspect, alas, are placed too late.
You should have feared false times when you did feast,
Suspect still comes where an estate is least.
That which I show, heaven knows, is merely love,
Duty and zeal to your unmatched mind,
Care of your food and living. And believe it,
My most honoured lord,
For any benefit that points to me,
Either in hope or present, I’d exchange
For this one wish, that you had power and wealth
To requite me by making rich yourself.

TIMON.
Look thee, ’tis so! Thou singly honest man,
Here, take. The gods out of my misery
Have sent thee treasure. Go, live rich and happy,
But thus conditioned: thou shalt build from men;
Hate all, curse all, show charity to none,
But let the famished flesh slide from the bone
Ere thou relieve the beggar; give to dogs
What thou deniest to men; let prisons swallow ’em,
Debts wither ’em to nothing; be men like blasted woods,
And may diseases lick up their false bloods!
And so farewell and thrive.

FLAVIUS.
O, let me stay
And comfort you, my master.

TIMON.
If thou hat’st curses,
Stay not. Fly whilst thou’rt blest and free.
Ne’er see thou man, and let me ne’er see thee.

[_Exeunt severally._]




ACT V

SCENE I. The woods. Before Timon’s cave


Enter Poet and Painter.

PAINTER.
As I took note of the place, it cannot be far where he abides.

POET.
What’s to be thought of him? Does the rumour hold for true that he is
so full of gold?

PAINTER.
Certain. Alcibiades reports it; Phrynia and Timandra had gold of him.
He likewise enriched poor straggling soldiers with great quantity. ’Tis
said he gave unto his steward a mighty sum.

POET.
Then this breaking of his has been but a try for his friends?

PAINTER.
Nothing else. You shall see him a palm in Athens again, and flourish
with the highest. Therefore ’tis not amiss we tender our loves to him
in this supposed distress of his. It will show honestly in us and is
very likely to load our purposes with what they travail for, if it be a
just and true report that goes of his having.

POET.
What have you now to present unto him?

PAINTER.
Nothing at this time but my visitation; only I will promise him an
excellent piece.

POET.
I must serve him so too, tell him of an intent that’s coming toward
him.

PAINTER.
Good as the best. Promising is the very air o’ th’ time; it opens the
eyes of expectation. Performance is ever the duller for his act and,
but in the plainer and simpler kind of people, the deed of saying is
quite out of use. To promise is most courtly and fashionable;
performance is a kind of will or testament which argues a great
sickness in his judgment that makes it.

Enter Timon from his cave.

TIMON.
[_Aside_.] Excellent workman! Thou canst not paint a man so bad as is
